 The history of all previous society ( 2 ) be the history of class struggle .
 Free and slave , patrician and plebeian , baron and serf , guild citizen and fellow , in short , the oppressor and the oppressed stood in constant opposition to one another , wag an uninterrupted , sometimes hidden , sometimes open struggle , a struggle that be each time with a revolutionary transformation of the whole society end or with the common downfall of the fighting class .
 In the earlier epoch of history we find almost everywhere a complete division of society into various class , a manifold gradation of social position .
 In ancient Rome we have | 463 | Patricians , knight , plebeian , slave ; in the Middle Ages feudal lord , vassal , guild citizen , journeyman , serf , and in addition to that in almost each of these class special grade .
 Modern bourgeois society , which emerge from the demise of feudal society , do not abolish class antagonism .
 It have only replace the old with new class , new condition of oppression , new form of struggle .
 Our epoch , the epoch of the bourgeoisie , be , however , distinguish by the fact that it have simplify the class antagonism .
 The whole of society be more and more split into two great hostile camp , into two great , directly oppose class : the bourgeoisie and the proletariat .
 The stake citizen of the first city emerge from the serf of the Middle Ages ; out of this stake citizenship develop the first element of the bourgeoisie .
 The discovery of America and the circumnavigation of Africa create new territory for the emerge bourgeoisie .
 The East Indian and Chinese market , the colonization of America , the exchange with the colony , the increase in the mean of exchange and commodity in general give trade , shipping , and industry an unprecedented boom and thus the revolutionary element in the crumbling feudal society a rapid one Development .
 The previous feudal or guild operate mode of the industry be no longer sufficient for the grow demand with new { 2 } market .
 The manufactory take its place .
 The guild master be oust by the industrial middle class ; the division of labor between the various corporation disappear before the division of labor in the individual workshop itself .
 But the market keep grow and the demand increase .
 The manufactory be also no longer sufficient .
 Then steam and machinery revolutionize industrial production .
 The place of manufacture be replace by modern , large-scale industry ; the place of the industrial middle class be replace by industrial millionaire , the chief of entire industrial army , the modern bourgeoisie .
 Great industry produce the world market which the discovery of America prepare .
 The world market have give immeasurable development to trade , shipping , and land communication .
 This have | 464 | It have an effect on the expansion of industry , and to the same extent that industry , trade , shipping , and railway expand , the bourgeoisie develop to the same extent , increase its capital , and push into the background all class hand down from the Middle Ages .
 So we see how the modern bourgeoisie itself be the product of a long course of development , a series of upheaval in the mode of production and communication .
 Each of these stage of development of the bourgeoisie be accompany by a corresponding political progress { 3 } .
 Oppressed state under the rule of the feudal lord , arm and self-governing association { 4 } in the commune ( 3 ) , here independent urban republic { 5 } , there third taxable state of the monarchy { 6 } , then at the time of the manufacture counterweight against the Nobility in the estate or in the absolute monarchy { 7 } , the main basis of the great monarchy in general , they finally fight for exclusive political rule in the modern representative state since the establishment of great industry and the world market .
 The modern state power be only a committee which administer the common affair of the whole bourgeois class .
 The bourgeoisie have play a most revolutionary role in history .
 The bourgeoisie , wherever it come to power , destroy all feudal , patriarchal , idyllic condition .
 It mercilessly tear the variegated feudal tie that tie man to his natural superior and leave no other bond between man and man than bare interest , but callous `` cash payment '' .
 She have the holy shiver of pious enthusiasm , of knightly | 465 | enthusiasm , the bourgeois melancholy drown in the ice-cold water of selfish calculation .
 It have dissolve personal dignity into exchange value and replace the innumerable securitized and well-earned freedom with an unconscionable freedom of trade .
 In a word , it have replace exploitation veil with religious and political illusion with open , outrageous , direct , arid exploitation .
 The bourgeoisie have strip of its halo of all activity that have hitherto be venerable and view with pious awe .
 She have transform the doctor , the lawyer , the priest , the poet , the man of science into her pay wage laborer .
 The bourgeoisie have tear off the touchingly sentimental veil of the family relationship and reduce it to a purely monetary relationship .
 The bourgeoisie have reveal how the brutal display of force which Reaction so much admires in the Middle Ages find its fitting complement in the most sluggish bear-skinning .
 It be only she who demonstrate what human activity can bring about .
 It perform very different marvel than Egyptian pyramid , Roman aqueducts and Gothic cathedral ; it perform very different move than migration and crusade .
 The bourgeoisie can not exist without continuously revolutionize the instrument of production , that be , the relation of production , that be , all social relation .
 On the other hand , unchanged retention of the old mode of production be the first condition of existence of all earlier industrial class .
 The continual upheaval in production , the uninterrupted shaking of all social condition , the eternal uncertainty and movement characterize the bourgeois epoch from all others { 8 } .
 All fix , rusty condition with their train of time-honored idea and view be dissolve , all newly form condition become obsolete before they can ossify .
 Everything standing and stand evaporates , everything sacred be desecrate , and people be finally force to look at their position in life and their mutual relationship with sober eye .
 The bourgeoisie be chase the need for more and more extensive sale of its product all over the world .
 It have to nestle up everywhere , grow everywhere , establish connection everywhere .
 | 466 | The bourgeoisie have make the production and consumption of all country cosmopolitan through its { 9 } exploitation of the world market .
 To the great regret of the reactionary , it have pull the national soil from under the foot of industry .
 The ancient national industry have be and be still be destroy daily .
 They be be displace by new industry , the introduction of which will become a vital question for all civilized nation , by industry that no longer process indigenous raw material , but raw material belong to the most remote zone and whose product be use not only in the country itself but in all part of the world at the same time .
 In place of the old need , satisfy by the product of the country , there be new need which the product of the most distant country and climate require for their satisfaction .
 In place of the old local and national self-sufficiency and seclusion , there be mutual intercourse , an all-round dependence of nation on one another .
 And as in material , so also in intellectual production .
 The spiritual product of the individual nation become common property .
 National one-sidedness and narrow-mindedness be become more and more impossible , and a world literature be be form from the many national and local literature .
 The bourgeoisie be tear all , even the most barbaric , nation into civilization through the rapid improvement of all instrument of production , through the infinitely easier communication .
 The cheap price of their good be the heavy artillery with which they shoot all Chinese wall into the ground , with which they force the most stubborn xenophobia of the barbarian to surrender .
 It force all nation to appropriate the bourgeoisie 's mode of production if they do not want to perish ; it compel them to introduce so-called civilization into themselves , i.e .
 To become a bourgeois .
 In a word , she create a world in her own image .
 The bourgeoisie have subjugate the country to the rule of the city .
 It create enormous city , it increase the number of the urban population to a great extent compare to the rural one , and thus wrest a significant part of the population from the idiotism of rural life .
 Just as it have make the country dependent on the city , it have make the barbaric and semi-barbaric country dependent on the civilize , the peasant people on the bourgeois people , the Orient dependent on the Occident .
 The bourgeoisie more and more abolishes the fragmentation of the mean of production , of property and of the population .
 It have the population agglo- | 467 | merge , the mean of production centralize and ownership concentrate in a few hand .
 The inevitable consequence of this be political centralization .
 Independent , almost only allied province with different interest , law , government and tariff be compress into one nation , one government , one law , one national class interest , one line of the Dunes .
 In barely a century of class rule , the bourgeoisie have create more massive and colossal productive force than all previous generation combine .
 Subjugation of natural force , machinery , application of chemistry to industry and agriculture , steam navigation , railway , electric telegraph , reclamation of whole part of the world , make river navigable , whole population stamp out of the ground - what earlier { 10 } century suspect that such productive force be in the lap of the social work slumber .
 So we have see { 11 } : The mean of production and mean of transport , on the basis of which the bourgeoisie be form , be create in feudal society .
 At a certain stage in the development of these mean of production and mean of transport , the condition in which feudal society produce and exchange , the feudal organization of agriculture and manufacture , in a word , the feudal property relation , no longer correspond to the already developed productive force .
 They inhibit production instead of promote it .
 They turn into as many shackle .
 They have to be blow up , they be blow up .
 In their place come free competition with an appropriate social and political constitution , with the economic and political rule of the bourgeois class .
 A similar movement be take place under our eye .
 The bourgeois relation of production and traffic , the bourgeois property relation , the modern bourgeois society , which have conjure up such powerful mean of production and mean of transport , resemble the sorcerer who be no longer able to control the subterranean force that he conjure up .
 For decade the history of industry and trade have be only { 12 } the history of the revolt of the modern productive force against the modern production relation , against the property relation , which be the living condition of the bourgeoisie and their rule .
 Suffice it to mention the commercial crisis which , with their periodic recurrence , threaten the existence of the whole of civil society in | 468 | Ask a Question .
 In the trade crises a large part not only of the produced product , but { 13 } of the productive force already create be regularly destroy .
 In the crisis a social epidemic break out , which would have seem absurd in all previous epochs - the epidemic of overproduction .
 Society suddenly find itself return to a state of momentary barbarism ; a famine , a general war of extermination { 14 } seem to have cut off all food ; industry and trade seem to have be destroy , and why ?
 Because it have too much civilization , too much food , too much industry , too much trade .
 The productive force that be available to it no longer serve to promote { 15 } the civil property relation ; on the contrary , they have become too powerful for these condition , they be inhibit by them ; and as soon as they overcome this obstacle , they disorder the whole of bourgeois society , they endanger the existence of bourgeois property .
 The bourgeoisie have become too tight to grasp the wealth they have generate .
 - How do the bourgeoisie overcome the crisis ?
 On the one hand through the forced annihilation of a mass of productive force ; on the other hand through the conquest of new market and the more thorough exploitation of old { 16 } market .
 So by what ?
 By prepare more all-round and more violent crisis and reduce the mean of prevent them .
 The weapon with which the bourgeoisie knock feudalism to the ground be now turn against the bourgeoisie itself .
 But the bourgeoisie not only forge the weapon that bring it to death ; it also father the men who will wield these weapon - the modern worker , the proletarian .
 To the same extent that the bourgeoisie , i.e .
 Capital , develop , so do the proletariat , the class of modern worker who live only as long as they find work and who only find work as long as their labor increase capital .
 These worker , who have to sell themselves piece by piece , be a commodity like any other article of trade and be therefore equally expose to all the vicissitude of competition and all fluctuation in the market .
 The work of the proletarian have lose all independent character and thus all charm for the { 17 } worker through the expansion of the machinery and the division of work .
 It become a mere accessory to the machine from which | 469 | only the simplest , most monotonous , easiest to learn handle be require .
 The cost incur by the worker be therefore almost limit to the mean of subsistence he need for his maintenance and for the propagation of his race .
 But the price of a commodity , include labor , be equal to its production cost .
 As the repugnance of work increase , so do wage .
 Even more , in the same measure as the machinery and division of labor increase , in the same measure the mass { 18 } of labor also increase , either by increase the hour of work or by increase the work require in a give time , accelerated course of machine etc .
 Modern industry have transform the patriarchal master 's small workshop into the great factory of the industrial capitalist .
 Workers crowd together in the factory be organize like soldier .
 As common industrial soldier , they be place under the supervision of a full hierarchy of NCOs and officer .
 They be not only servant of the bourgeoisie , the bourgeois state , they be daily and hourly enslave by the machine , by the overseer and above all by the { 19 } individual manufacturing bourgeois themselves .
 This despotism be the more petty , hateful , bitter , the more open they proclaim the acquisition as their { 20 } purpose .
 The less manual work require skill and strength , i.e .
 the more modern industry develop , the more the work of men be displace by that of woman { 21 } .
 Gender and age difference no longer have any social relevance for the working class .
 There be only work tool that make different cost depend on age and gender .
 If the exploitation of the worker by the manufacturer have end so far that he receive his wage in cash , then the other section of the bourgeoisie attack him , the house owner , the shopkeeper , the pawnbroker { 22 } etc .
 The previous small middle class , the small industrialist , merchant and rentier , the artisan and peasant , all these class fall into the proletariat , partly because their small capital be insufficient for the operation of big industry and succumb to competition with the larger capitalist partly because their skill be devalue by new mode of production .
 Thus the proletariat be recruit from all class of the population .
 | 470 | The proletariat go through different stage of development .
 His struggle against the bourgeoisie begin with his existence .
 In the beginning , the individual worker , then the worker of a factory , then the worker of a branch of work fight in one place against the individual bourgeois , who directly exploit them .
 They direct their attack not only against the bourgeois production relation , they direct them against the instrument of production themselves ; they destroy the foreign compete good , they smash the machine , they set the factory on fire , which seek { 23 } to regain the vanished position of the medieval worker .
 At this stage the worker form a mass scatter across the country and fragment by competition .
 Mass cohesion of the worker be not yet the result of their own unification , but the result of the unification of the bourgeoisie , which in order to achieve its own political end must and can for the time be set the whole proletariat in motion .
 At this stage the proletarian do not yet fight their enemy , but the enemy of their enemy , the remnant of the absolute monarchy , the landowner , the non-industrial bourgeoisie , the petty bourgeoisie .
 The whole historical movement be thus concentrate in the hand of the bourgeoisie ; every victory so win be a victory of the bourgeoisie .
 But with the development of industry , not only do the proletariat increase ; it be compress in larger mass , its strength grows and it feel it more and more .
 The interest , the living condition within the proletariat be become more and more balanced , as the machinery more and more blur the difference in work and almost everywhere reduce wage to the same low level .
 The grow competition between the bourgeoisie and the result commercial crisis make the wage of the worker more and more fluctuating ; the ever more rapidly develop , incessant improvement of the machinery make their whole position in life more and more insecure ; more and more the collision between the individual worker and the individual bourgeois assume the character of collision between two class .
 The worker begin to form coalition { 24 } against the bourgeois ; they come together to maintain their wage .
 They create lasting association themselves in order to provide provision for the occasional outrage .
 In place the fight break out in reunion .
 | 471 | From time to time the worker win , but only temporarily .
 The real result of their struggle be not the immediate success , but the ever increase unification of the worker .
 It be promote by the grow mean of communication that large industry generates and which connect worker in different locality .
 All that be need be a connection in order to centralize the many local struggle of the same character everywhere into a national , a class struggle .
 Every class struggle be { 25 } a political struggle .
 And the union to which the citizen of the Middle Ages with their vicinal route take century , the modern proletarian bring about with the railway in a few year .
 This organization of the proletarian into a class , and thus into a political party , be break up again at any moment by the competition among the worker themselves .
 But it arise again and again , stronger , stronger , more powerful .
 It force the recognition of individual interest of the worker in legal form by use the division of the bourgeoisie among themselves .
 So the ten-hour bill in England .
 The collision of the old society in general promote the development of the proletariat in many way .
 The bourgeoisie be in constant struggle : at first against the aristocracy ; later against the section of the bourgeoisie itself , whose interest conflict with the progress of industry ; always against the bourgeoisie of all foreign country .
 In all these struggle it feel compel to appeal to the proletariat , to take its help and thus drag it into the political movement .
 She herself lead the proletariat her own { 26 } educational element , i.e .
 Weapons against yourself , too .
 Furthermore , as we have see , whole section of the ruling class be throw down into the proletariat , or at least their living condition be threaten , by the progress of industry .
 They also bring a mass of educational element { 27 } to the proletariat .
 Finally , at a time when the class struggle be near a decision , the process of disintegration within the ruling class , within the whole of old society , assume such a violent , so glaring character that a small section of the ruling class break away from it and join the revolutionary class Class join , the class that hold the future in their hand .
 Just as , therefore , earlier part of the nobility go over to the bourgeoisie , so now a part of the bourgeoisie go over to the proletariat , and by name and a part of these bourgeois ideologue who have work their way up to a theoretical understanding of the entire historical movement .
 Of all the class face the bourgeoisie today , only the proletariat be a truly revolutionary class .
 The other class degenerate and perish with big industry , the proletariat be its own product .
 The middle class , the little industrialist , the little merchant , the artisan , the farmer , they all fight the bourgeoisie in order to secure their existence as middle class from ruin .
 So you be not revolutionary , but conservative .
 Even more , they be reactionary { 28 } , they try to turn back the wheel of history .
 If they be revolutionary , then they be so with a view to their impending transition to the proletariat ; they defend not their present but their future interest ; they leave their own standpoint in order to take on that of the proletariat .
 -
 The lumpen proletariat , this passive decay of the lowest stratum of the old society , be be throw into the movement in place by a proletarian revolution ; accord to its whole situation it will be more willing to allow itself to be buy for reactionary activity .
 The living condition of the old society have already be destroy in the living condition of the proletariat .
 The proletarian be propertyless ; his relationship to wife and child no longer have anything in common with the civil family relationship ; modern industrial labor , modern subjugation to capital , the same in England as in France , in America as in Germany , have strip it of all national character .
 For him , law , moral , and religion be just as many bourgeois prejudice behind which just as many bourgeois interest be hide .
 All the earlier class that have conquer power seek to secure the position they have already acquire by subject the whole of society to the condition of their acquisition .
 The proletarian can only conquer the social productive force by abolish their own previous mode of appropriation and thus the whole previous mode of appropriation .
 The proletarian have nothing of their own to secure , they have to destroy all previous private security { 29 } and private insurance .
 All previous movement have be movement by minority or in the interest of minority .
 The proletarian movement be the independent movement of the immense majority in the interest of the immense majority .
 The proletariat , the lowest stratum of today 's society , | 473 | can not rise , can not straighten up , without the whole superstructure of the stratum that make up official society be blow up .
 Although not in term of content , the form of the struggle of the proletariat against the bourgeoisie be primarily national .
 The proletariat of any country must naturally first deal with its own bourgeoisie .
 By sketch the most general phase of the development of the proletariat , we follow the more or less hidden civil war within the exist society to the point where it break out into an open revolution and the proletariat establish its rule through the violent overthrow of the bourgeoisie .
 All previous society , as we have see , be base on the contrast between oppressive and oppressed class .
 In order to be able to suppress a class , however , it must be guarantee condition within which it can at least eke out its servile existence .
 The serf have work his way up to a member of the commune in serfdom just as the petty bourgeoisie have work his way up to the bourgeoisie under the yoke of feudalist absolutism .
 The modern worker , on the other hand , instead of rise with the advance of industry , sink ever deeper below the condition of his own class .
 The worker become a pauper , and pauperism develops even faster { 30 } than population and wealth .
 It be herewith openly evident that the bourgeoisie be incapable of remain the rule class of society any longer and of impose the living condition of its class on society as a regulating law .
 It be incapable of ruling because it be incapable of ensure the existence of its slave even within his slavery , because it be force to let him sink into a position where she have to fee him instead of be feed by him .
 Society can no longer live under her , i.e .
 her life be no longer compatible with society .
 The essential { 31 } condition for the existence and for the rule of the bourgeois class be the accumulation of wealth in the hand of private individual , the formation and increase of the capital ; the condition of capital be wage labor .
 Wage labor be base exclusively on the competition between worker .
 The progress of industry , of which the bourgeoisie be the willless and unresisting sponsor , replace the isolation of the worker through competition with their revolutionary union through the association .
 With the development of big industry the basis itself be pull away from under the foot of the bourgeoisie { 32 } , upon which it produce and appropriate the product .
 Above all , she produce her { 33 } own gravedigger .
 Their downfall and the victory of the proletariat be equally inevitable .
