 What be the relationship between the communist and the proletarian ?
 The communist be not a special party in relation to the other worker ' party .
 They have no separate interest from the interest of the whole proletariat .
 They do not set up any special { 34 } principle accord to which they want to model the proletarian movement .
 The communist differ from the other proletarian party only in that , on the one hand , they emphasize and assert the common interest of the entire proletariat , independent of nationality , in the various national struggle of the proletarian , and on the other hand , that they be in the various The stage of development which the struggle between proletariat and bourgeoisie go through always represent the interest of the movement as a whole .
 The communist be therefore practically the most decisive , always advance part of the worker ' party in all country ; Theoretically they have an insight into the condition , the course and general result of the proletarian movement ahead of the rest of the mass of the proletariat .
 The next purpose of the communist be the same as that of all other proletarian party : formation of the proletariat into a class , overthrow of bourgeois rule , conquest of political power by the proletariat .
 The theoretical proposition of the communist be in no way base on idea , on principle invent or discover by this or that do-gooder .
 | 475 | They be only general expression of the actual condition of an exist class struggle , of a historical movement go on before our eye .
 The abolition of previous property relation be nothing characteristic of { 36 } communism .
 All property relation be subject to a constant historical change , a constant historical change .
 The French Revolution e.g .
 abolish feudal property in favor of bourgeois property .
 What distinguish communism be not the abolition of property in general , but the abolition of civil property .
 But modern bourgeois private property be the ultimate and most perfect expression of the creation and appropriation of product , which be base on class contradiction , { 37 } on the exploitation of the one { 38 } by the other { 39 } .
 In this sense , communist can summarize their theory in one expression : the abolition of private property .
 We communist have be accuse of want to abolish personally acquire , self-made property ; property , which form the basis of all personal freedom , activity and independence .
 Earned , acquire , self-earned property !
 Are you talk about petty bourgeois , peasant property that precede bourgeois property ?
 We do n't need to abolish it , industry development have abolish it and be get rid of it every day .
 Or be you talk about modern bourgeois private property ?
 But do wage labor , the labor of the proletarian , create property for him ?
 Not at all .
 It create the capital , i.e .
 property which wage labor exploit , which can only increase on the condition that it produce new wage labor in order to re-exploit it .
 Property in its present form move in the opposition of capital and wage labor .
 Let us consider the two side of this opposition .
 To be a capitalist mean not only to take a purely personal but also a social position in production .
 Capital be a common product and can only be set in motion through the joint activity of many member , and ultimately only through the joint activity of all member of society .
 | 476 | So capital be not a personal power , it be a social power .
 So when capital be transform into common property belonging to all member of society , personal property be not transform into social property .
 Only the social character of property change .
 It lose its class character .
 Let 's get to wage labor :
 The average price of wage labor be the minimum of wage , i.e .
 the sum of the food necessary to keep the worker alive as a worker .
 So what the wage worker appropriate through his activity be only sufficient to generate his bare life again .
 We do not want to abolish this personal appropriation of the product of labor for the regeneration of immediate life , an appropriation that leave no net income that could give power over someone else 's labor .
 We only want to abolish the miserable character of this appropriation , in which the worker live only to increase capital , only live as far as the interest of the ruling class demand .
 In bourgeois society , live labor be only a mean of increase labor accumulate .
 In communist society , accumulate labor be only a mean of expand , enrich and promote the life process of worker .
 In bourgeois society the past rule over the present , in communist society the present rule over the past .
 In bourgeois society capital be independent and personal , while the active individual be dependent and impersonal .
 And the abolition of this relationship be what the bourgeoisie call the abolition of personality and freedom !
 And rightly so .
 It be , however , a question of the abolition of the bourgeois personality , independence and freedom .
 Within the current bourgeois production relation , freedom be understood to mean free trade , free purchase and sale .
 But if the haggle fall , so do the free haggle .
 The idiom of free haggling , like all other bravades of freedom of our bourgeoisie { 40 } , only have a meaning in relation to the bound haggle , in relation to the enslave citizen of the Middle Ages , but not in relation to the communist abolition of haggling , the bourgeois production relation and the bourgeoisie itself .
 | 477 | You be appalled that we want to abolish private property .
 But in your exist society private property be abolish for nine tenth of its member ; it exist precisely because it do not exist for nine tenth .
 So you reproach us for want to abolish property which presuppose the lack of property of the vast majority of society as a necessary condition .
 You reproach us with a word of want to keep your property .
 Yes , we do .
 From the moment when labor can no longer be transform into capital , money , rent , in short , into a social power that can be monopolize , i.e .
 from the moment when personal property can no longer turn into civil property , from the moment you declare that the person have be abolish .
 So you confess that by the person you understand no one other than the bourgeois , the bourgeois owner .
 And this person should , however , be cancel .
 Communism do not take away from anyone the power to appropriate social product , it only take away the power to subjugate themselves through this appropriation to foreign labor .
 It have be object that with the abolition of private property all activity will cease and a general laziness will break down .
 According to this , civil society must long ago have perish from indolence ; for those who work in it do not earn , and those who earn in it do not work .
 The whole concern boil down to the tautology that there be no more wage labor as soon as there be no more capital .
 All objection direct against the communist mode of appropriation and production of material product have also be extend to the appropriation and production of intellectual product .
 Just as the cessation of class property be the cessation of production itself for the bourgeois , so for him the cessation of class formation be identical with the cessation of formation in general .
 The education , the loss of which he regret , be for the vast majority the training to become a machine .
 But do not argue with us by measure the abolition of civil property against your bourgeois idea of freedom , education , law , etc .
 Your idea themselves be product of the bourgeois production and property relation , just as your right be only the will of your class raise to law , a will whose content be give in the material living condition of your class .
 | 478 | You share the interested notion in which you transform your relation of production and property from historical relation , which be temporary in the course of production , into eternal law of nature and reason , with all the ruling class that have vanish .
 What you understand for ancient property , what you understand for feudal property , you must no longer understand for bourgeois property .
 Lifting the family !
 Even the most radical one get excite about this shameful intention of the communist .
 What be the present bourgeois family base on ?
 On capital , on private gain .
 It exist fully develop only for the bourgeoisie ; but it be complement by the forced lack of family of the proletarian and public prostitution .
 The family of the { 41 } bourgeoisie naturally fall away with the disappearance of this complement of them , and both disappear with the disappearance of capital .
 Are you accuse us of want to end the exploitation of child by their parent ?
 We admit this crime .
 But , you say , we abolish the most intimate relationship by replace domestic education with social education .
 And be n't your upbringing also determine by society ?
 Through the social condition within which { 42 } you educate , through the more direct or indirect interference of society , through the school , etc . ?
 The communist do not invent the influence of society on education ; they only change their character , they snatch education from the influence of the ruling class .
 The bourgeois saying about family and upbringing , about the intimate relationship between parent and child , become all the more disgust the more , as a result of large-scale industry , all family tie for the proletarian be torn and the child be transform into simple article of commerce and work tool .
 But you communists want to introduce the community of woman , the whole bourgeoisie yell at us in chorus .
 The bourgeois see his wife as a mere instrument of production .
 He hear that the instrument of production be to be exploit collectively , and of course can only think of anything other than that the fate of communality will also affect woman .
 | 479 | Little do he suspect that it be a question of abolish woman as mere instrument of production .
 Incidentally , nothing be more ridiculous than the high moral horror of our bourgeoisie at the allege official communist woman ’ s community .
 The communist do not need to introduce the community of woman , it have almost always exist .
 Our bourgeoisie , not satisfy with the fact that the wife and daughter of their proletarian be at their disposal , not to mention official prostitution , find a major pleasure in seduce each other 's wife .
 Civil marriage be actually the community of wife .
 At most one could reproach the communist with want to introduce an official , open-hearted community of woman { 44 } in place of a hypocritically hidden one .
 Incidentally , it go without say that with the abolition of the current relation of production , the community of woman that emerge from them , i.e .
 official and unofficial prostitution , disappears .
 The communist have also be accuse of want to abolish the fatherland and nationality .
 The worker have no fatherland .
 You ca n't take from them what they do n't have .
 Since the proletariat must first conquer political rule , raise itself to a national class { 45 } , and constitute itself as a nation , it be itself still national , even if by no mean in the sense of the bourgeoisie .
 The national segregation and antagonism of people be disappear more and more with the development of the bourgeoisie , with freedom of trade , the world market , the uniformity of industrial production and the living condition correspond to it .
 The rule of the proletariat will make them disappear even more .
 United action , at least of civilized country , be one of the first condition for its liberation .
 As one individual be cease to be exploit by the other , so be the exploitation of one nation by the other .
 With the opposition of the class within the nation { 46 } the hostile position of the nation against each other fall .
 | 480 | The charge against communism , raise from religious , philosophical , and ideological point of view in general , do not deserve further discussion .
 Do you need deeper insight to understand that with the living condition of people , with their social relationship , with their social existence , also their idea , view and concept , in a word their consciousness change ?
 What do the history of idea prove otherwise than that intellectual production be transform with material ?
 The rule idea of a time be always only the idea of the ruling class .
 One speaks of idea that revolutionize a whole society ; This only express the fact that the element of a new society have form within the old society , that with the dissolution of the old living condition the dissolution of the old idea keep pace .
 When the old world be about to fall , the old religion be defeat by the Christian religion .
 When Christian ideas succumb to the Enlightenment in the 18th century , feudal society fight its death throe with the then revolutionary bourgeoisie .
 The idea of freedom of conscience and religion only express the rule of free competition in the field of knowledge { 47 } .
 “ But , ” one would say , “ religious , moral , philosophical , political , legal idea , etc. , however , change in the course of historical development .
 Religion , morality , philosophy , politics , and law have always be preserve in this alternation There be also eternal truth , such as freedom , justice , etc. , which be common to all social condition .
 Communism , however , abolishes eternal truth , it abolish religion , morality , instead of redesign them , so it contradict all previous one historical developments. ``
 What be this charge reduce to ?
 The history of the entire society up to now have move in class contradiction , which be shape differently in the most varied of epoch .
 Whatever form it have take , the exploitation of one part of society by the other be a fact common to all past century .
 No wonder , then , that the social consciousness of all century , in spite of all diversity and diversity , move in certain common form , | 481 | in { 48 } form of consciousness which only dissolve completely with the complete disappearance of the class antagonism .
 The communist revolution be the most radical break with traditional property relation ; no wonder that the most radical break with traditional idea be in their development .
 But let 's leave the objection of the bourgeoisie against communism .
 We have already see above that the first step in the worker ' revolution be the elevation of the proletariat to the ruling class , the fight for democracy .
 The proletariat will use its political rule to gradually wrest all capital from the bourgeoisie , all instrument of production in the hand of the state , i.e .
 of the proletariat , organize as the ruling class , to centralize and to increase the mass of productive force as quickly as possible .
 This can of course only be do by mean of despotic intervention in property right and in bourgeois relation of production , i.e .
 by mean of measure which appear economically inadequate and untenable , but which in the course of the movement drive over themselves and be inevitable as a mean of overturn the entire mode of production .
 These measure will of course vary from country to country .
 For the most advanced country , however , the following will be quite general :
 1 .
 Expropriation of landed property and use of land rent for government expenditure .
 2 .
 Strong progressive tax .
 3 .
 Abolition of inheritance law .
 4 .
 Confiscation of the property of all emigrant and rebel .
 5 .
 Centralization of credit in the hand of the state through a national bank with state capital and an exclusive monopoly .
 6 .
 Centralization of { 49 } transportation in the hand of the state .
 7 .
 Increase in the number of national factory , production instrument , reclamation and improvement of all land accord to a common plan .
 8 .
 The same compulsory labor for all , establishment of industrial army , especially for agriculture .
 9 .
 Union of farm and industry , work towards the gradual elimination of the difference { 50 } between town and country .
 | 482 | 10 .
 Public and free education of all child .
 Eliminate child 's factory work in its current form .
 Association of education with material production , etc .
 { 51 }
 If , in the course of development , class difference have disappear and all production be concentrate in the hand of the associated individual , then public power lose its political character .
 Political violence in the strict sense of the word be the organized violence of one class to oppress another .
 When the proletariat in the struggle against the bourgeoisie necessarily unite itself into a class , make itself the ruling class through a revolution and , as the ruling class , forcibly abolish the old relation of production , with these relation of production it lift the condition of existence of the class antagonism , the class in general , and thus its own rule as a class .
 In place of the old bourgeois society , with its class and class antagonism , there be an association in which the free development of everyone be the condition for the free development of all .
