 According to their historical position , the French and English aristocracy be call to write pamphlet against modern bourgeois society .
 In the French June revolution of 1830 , in the English reform movement , it succumb once more to the hat upstart .
 There could no longer be any question of a serious political struggle .
 Only the literary struggle be leave to her .
 But also in the field of literature the old idiom of the Restoration period ( 4 ) have become impossible .
 In order to arouse sympathy , the aristocracy apparently have to lose sight of its interest { 53 } and only form { 54 } its act of indictment against the bourgeoisie in the interest of the exploited working class lean .
 In this way she prepare the satisfaction of sing insult for her new ruler and of be able to whisper more or less ominous prophecy in his ear .
 In this way feudalist socialism arise , half lament , half pasquill , half echo of the past , half threat of the future , sometimes strike the bourgeoisie in the heart through bitter , wittily tear judgment , always comical through complete inability to follow the course of modern history understand .
 They wave the proletarian begging sack { 55 } as a flag in their hand to gather the people behind them .
 Whenever it follow them , however , it would see the old feudal coat of arm on its bum and get lose with loud and irreverent laughter .
 Part of the French Legitimists and Young England give the best of this spectacle .
 When the feudals prove that their mode of exploitation be different from that of bourgeois exploitation , they only forget that they exploit under completely different and now outdated circumstance and condition .
 When they show that the modern proletariat do not exist under their rule , they only forget that the modern bourgeoisie be a necessary offspring of their social order .
 Incidentally , they do so little to hide the reactionary character of their criticism that their main accusation against the bourgeoisie consist in the fact that a class be develop under their regime which will blow up the whole old social order .
 They accuse the bourgeoisie even more of create a revolutionary proletariat than of create a proletariat at all .
 In political practice , therefore , they take part in all measure of violence against the working class , and in ordinary life they make it easy to pick up the golden apple in spite of all their bloat saying and fidelity , love , honor with the haggle in sheep 's wool , turnip and Swap schnapps ( 5 ) .
 As the priest always go hand in hand with the feudal , so do the priestly socialism with the feudalist .
 | 484 | Nothing could be easier than give Christian asceticism a socialist look .
 Was n't Christianity also jealous against private property , against marriage , against the state ?
 Has it not preach charity and begging , celibacy and butchering , cell life and the church in their place ?
 Christian { 58 } socialism be only the holy water with which the priest bless the anger of the aristocrat .
 b ) Petty-bourgeois socialism
 The feudal aristocracy be not the only class overthrow by the bourgeoisie , whose live condition in modern bourgeois society wither and wither .
 The medieval stake bourgeoisie and the small peasant class be the forerunner of the modern bourgeoisie .
 In the less industrially and commercially developed country this class still vegetate alongside the emerge bourgeoisie .
 In the country where modern civilization have develop , a new petty bourgeoisie have form , which hover between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie and be constantly re-emerging as a complementary part of bourgeois society , but whose member be constantly throw into the proletariat by competition will , even with the development of great industry , see a point approach when they will disappear completely as an independent part of modern society and will be replace in trade , manufacture and agriculture by labor overseer and domestic .
 In country like France , where the peasant class make up far more than half of the population , it be natural that writer who stand up for the proletariat against the bourgeoisie should apply petty-bourgeois and peasant standard to their criticism of the bourgeois regime The petty bourgeoisie take the position .
 In this way petty-bourgeois socialism be form .
 Sismondi be the head of this literature not only for France but also for England .
 This socialism articulately dissect the contradiction in modern relation of production .
 He reveal the railroad track | 485 | Glossing over the economist .
 He prove irrefutably the destructive effect of machinery and the division of labor , the concentration of capital and land property , overproduction , the crisis , the necessary downfall of the small burgher and peasant , the misery of the proletariat , the anarchy in production , blatant imbalance in the distribution of wealth , the industrial war of annihilation among nation , the dissolution of old custom , old family relationship , old nationality .
 In term of its positive content , however , this socialism either want to restore the old mean of production and mean of transport , and with them the old property relation and the old society , or it want to blow the modern mean of production and mean of transport within the framework of the old property relation , which they explode have to be forcibly lock up again .
 In both case it be reactionary and utopian at the same time .
 Guilds in the manufacture and patriarchal economy in the country , these be his last word .
 In its further development this direction get lose in a cowardly misery { 59 } .
 c ) German or `` true '' socialism
 The socialist and communist literature of France , which arise under the pressure of a ruling bourgeoisie and be the literary expression of the struggle against this rule , be introduce to Germany at a time when the bourgeoisie be just begin its struggle against feudal absolutism .
 German philosopher , half-philosophers and aesthete greedily take possession of this literature and only forget that when those writing immigrate from France , the French living condition have not immigrate to Germany at the same time .
 Compared to German condition , French literature lose all its immediate practical importance and assume a purely literary appearance .
 It have to appear as idle speculation { 60 } about the realization of the human be .
 For the German philosopher of the 18th century , | 486 | the demand of the first French Revolution only mean to be demand of `` practical reason '' in general , and the expression of will of the French bourgeoisie signify in their eye the law of the pure will , of the will as it must be , of the truly human will .
 The exclusive work of the German writer consist in reconcile the new French idea with their old philosophical conscience , or rather in appropriate the French idea from their philosophical standpoint .
 This appropriation take place in the same way that one appropriate a foreign thing in general , through translation .
 It be know how the monk overwrite manuscript on which the classical work of the ancient pagan time be record with absurd story of Catholic saint .
 The German writer treat secular French literature in reverse .
 They write their philosophical nonsense behind the French original .
 E.g .
 behind the French criticism of the monetary relation they write `` alienation of the human be '' , behind the French criticism of the bourgeois state they write `` abolition of the rule of the abstract universal '' etc .
 The { 61 } suppression of these { 62 } philosophical saying under the French development they baptize `` Philosophy of Action '' , `` True Socialism '' , `` German Science of Socialism '' , etc .
 The French socialist-communist literature be so formally emasculate .
 And since in the hand of the Germans it cease to express the struggle of one class against the other , the German be conscious that the `` French one-sidedness '' have be overcome , the need for truth instead of real need and the interest of the human instead of the interest of the proletarian The essence of have represent man in general , man who be not of any class , who be not at all of reality , who only belong to the hazy sky of philosophical fantasy .
 This German socialism , which take its clumsy school exercise so seriously and solemnly , and trumpet it so screech , gradually lose its pedantic innocence .
 The struggle of the German , especially the Prussian , bourgeoisie against the feudals and absolute kingship , in a word , the liberal movement become more serious .
 | 487 | The `` true '' socialism be give the desired opportunity to confront the political movement with the socialist demand , to hurl the traditional anathemes against liberalism , against the representative state , against bourgeois competition , civil freedom of the press , civil law , civil liberty and equality , and to hurl the popular mass to preach how it have nothing to gain from this bourgeois movement , but rather everything to lose .
 German socialism forget in time that the French criticism , whose mindless echo it be , presuppose modern bourgeois society with the corresponding material living condition and the appropriate political constitution { 63 } , nothing but prerequisites which it be only a question of fight in Germany .
 He serve the German absolute government with their retinue of priest , schoolmaster , herbjunkers and bureaucrat as a desirable scarecrow against the threaten rise bourgeoisie .
 It form the sweetish complement to the bitter lash and rifle pellet with which the same government work on the German worker ' uprising .
 If `` true '' socialism be in this way a weapon in the hand of the government against the German bourgeoisie , it also directly represent a reactionary interest , the interest of the German stake citizenship { 64 } .
 In Germany , the petty bourgeoisie , which have be hand down from the 16th century and have be emerge again and again in various form , form the actual basis of the exist situation .
 Its preservation be the preservation of the existing German condition .
 It fear the sure downfall of the industrial and political rule of the bourgeoisie , on the one hand as a result of the concentration of capital , and on the other hand through the emergence of a revolutionary proletariat .
 `` True '' socialism seem to him to kill both bird with one stone .
 It spread like an epidemic .
 The robe , knit from speculative spider web , embroider with aesthetic speech flower , saturate with love-sweltering emotion , this exuberant robe in which the German socialist wrap their few bony `` eternal truth '' only increase sale of their good with this audience .
 For its part , German socialism increasingly recognize its call to be the grand representative of this stake citizenship .
 | 488 | He proclaim the German nation as the normal nation and the German philistine { 65 } as the normal person .
 He give every wickedness of the same a hidden , higher , socialist meaning , in which it signify its opposite .
 He draw the ultimate conclusion by take a direct stand against the `` crude destructive '' direction of communism and proclaim his impartial superiority over all class struggle .
 With very few exception , everything that supposedly circulate in Germany about supposedly socialist and communist writing belongs in the realm of this dirty , unnerving literature ( 6 ) .
 2 .
 Conservative or bourgeois socialism
 A section of the bourgeoisie wish to remedy the social grievance in order to secure the existence of bourgeois society .
 Here belong : economist , philanthropist , humanitarianists , improver of the situation of the working class , charity organizer , abolishers of cruelty to animal , instigator of temperance association , angular reformer of the most motley kind .
 And this bourgeois socialism have also be work out into whole system .
 We cite Proudhon 's Philosophy de la misère as an example .
 The socialist bourgeois want the living condition of modern society without the struggle and danger that necessarily result from them .
 They want the exist society with the deduction of the element that revolutionize and dissolve it .
 They want the bourgeoisie without the proletariat .
 The bourgeoisie naturally think of the world in which it rule as the best world .
 Bourgeois socialism work this comfort idea into a half or whole system .
 When he call on the proletariat to realize his system and to enter { 66 } into the new Jerusalem , he basically only demand that it stop in the present society , but cast off its hateful idea of it .
 | 489 | A second , less systematic , only { 67 } more practical form of this socialism try to disguise every revolutionary movement for the work class by demonstrate how not this or that political change , but only a change in material living condition , economic condition be of use to it could be .
 By change the material living condition , however , this socialism do not mean the abolition of bourgeois production relation , which be only possible in a revolutionary way , but administrative improvement that take place on the basis of these production condition , i.e .
 change nothing in the relation between capital and wage labor , but in the at best the bourgeoisie reduce the cost of their rule and simplify their state budget .
 Bourgeois socialism only attain its corresponding expression when it become a mere oratorical figure .
 Free trade !
 in the interest of the working class ; Protective tariff !
 in the interest of the working class ; Cell prison !
 in the interest of the working class ; that be the last , the only serious word of bourgeois socialism .
 The socialism of the bourgeoisie { 68 } consist precisely in the assertion that the bourgeois be bourgeois - in the interest of the working class .
 3 .
 Critical utopian socialism or communism
 We be not talk here of the literature which , in all great modern revolution , express the demand of the proletariat .
 ( Writings of Babeuf etc . )
 The first attempt of the proletariat , in a time of general excitement , in the period of the overthrow of feudal society , to directly enforce its own class interest , necessarily fail because of the undeveloped form of the proletariat itself as well as because of the lack of the material condition for its liberation , which be just the product of the bourgeois era .
 The revolutionary literature that accompany these first movement of the proletariat be necessarily reactionary in content .
 It teach a general asceticism and a raw leveling of the level .
 The actually socialist and communist system , the system of St. Simons , Fouriers , Owens , etc. , appear in the first , undeveloped | 490 | Period of struggle between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie , which we have present above .
 ( See Bourgeoisie and Proletariat . )
 The inventor of these system see the antithesis of the class and the effectiveness of the dissolve element in the ruling society itself .
 But they see no historical autonomy on the side of the proletariat , no political movement peculiar to it .
 Since the development of class antagonism keep pace with the development of industry , neither do they find the material condition for the liberation of the proletariat and look for a social science , for social law , to create these condition .
 In place of social activity there must be a personally inventive activity , in place of the historical condition of liberation fantastic activity , in place of the gradual organization of the proletariat into class , a specially concocted organization of society .
 The coming world history dissolve for them into propaganda and the practical implementation of their social plan .
 They be , to be sure , aware that in their plan they mainly represent the interest of the work class as the most suffering class .
 Only from this point of view of the most suffering class do the proletariat exist for them .
 The undeveloped form of the class struggle , as well as their own situation in life , mean that they believe they be far above that class antagonism .
 They want to improve the living condition of all member of society , include the best off .
 They therefore constantly appeal to the whole of society without distinction , yes , preferably to the ruling class .
 One only need to understand their system to recognize it as the best possible plan of the best possible society .
 They therefore reject all political , especially all revolutionary , action , they want to achieve their goal in a peaceful way and try to break the ground for the new social gospel through small , naturally unsuccessful experiment , through the power of example .
 The { 69 } fantastic description of the future society arises { 70 } in a time when the proletariat be still extremely undeveloped , that be to say , be still fantastically understand its own position , its first foreboding urge for a general transformation of society .
 The social [ istic } en and communist writing also consist of critical element .
 They attack all foundation of the exist society .
 You therefore have extremely valuable material for clear up the | 491 | Workers deliver .
 Your positive sentence about future society , e.g .
 Abolition of the contradiction between { 71 } town and country , the family , private income , wage labor , the proclamation of social harmony , the transformation of the state into a mere administration of production - all of these proposition merely express the elimination of the class antagonism only just begin to develop , which they only know in its first formless indeterminacy .
 These sentence themselves therefore still have a purely utopian meaning .
 The importance of critical utopian socialism or communism be inversely relate to historical development .
 To the same extent as the class struggle develop and take shape , this fantastic elevation above it , this fantastic fight against it lose all practical value , all theoretical justification .
 Therefore , if the originator of these system be also revolutionary in many respect , their pupil always form reactionary sect .
 They hold firm to the old view of the master in relation to the historical development of the proletariat .
 They therefore consistently seek to blunt the class struggle again and to mediate the opposite .
 They still dream of the experimental realization of their social utopia , the foundation of individual phalansters , the establishment of home colony , the establishment of a small Icaria ( 7 ) - duodec edition of the new Jerusalem - and to build all these Spanish castle they have to rely on the philanthropy of the bourgeois heart and money bag appeal .
 Gradually they fall into the category of the reactionary or conservative socialist describe above and differ only { 72 } from them through more systematic pedantry , through the fanatical superstition in the miracle effect of their social science .
 They therefore oppose with bitterness all political movement of the worker , which could only emerge from blind unbelief in the new gospel .
 | 492 | The Owenists in England and the Fourierists in France react there against the Chartists , here against the reformist .
