 According to Section II , the relationship of the communist to the already constituted worker ' party be self-evident , i.e .
 their relationship to the Chartists in England and the agrarian reformer in North America .
 They fight for the attainment of the immediate aim and interest of the work class , but they represent in the present movement be also the future of the movement .
 In France the communist join the social-democratic party ( 8 ) against the conservative and radical bourgeoisie without give up the right to be critical of the phrase and illusion stem from revolutionary tradition ; in Switzerland they support them Radicals , without fail to recognize that this party consist of contradict element , partly of democratic socialist in the French sense , partly of radical bourgeoisie .
 Among the Poles , the communist support the party which make an agrarian revolution a condition of national liberation , the same party , which bring the Cracow insurrection of 1846 into be .
 In Germany , as soon as the bourgeoisie appear revolutionary , the Communist Party fight together with the bourgeoisie against absolute monarchy , feudal land property and petty bourgeoisie | 493 | to work out clear awareness of the hostile opposition between { 73 } bourgeoisie and proletariat , so that the German worker can immediately turn the social and political condition which the bourgeoisie must bring about with their rule as as many weapon against the bourgeoisie , thus after the fall of the reactionary class in Germany , the struggle against the bourgeoisie itself begin immediately .
 The communist direct their main attention to Germany because Germany be on the eve of a bourgeois revolution and because it be this upheaval under more advanced condition of European civilization in general and with a much more developed proletariat accomplish as England in the 17th and France in the 18th century , the German bourgeois revolution can only be the immediate prelude to a proletarian revolution .
 In a word , the communist everywhere support every revolutionary movement against the best In all these movement they emphasize the question of property , whatever more or less developed form it may have take , as the basic question of the movement .
 The communist be finally work everywhere to connect and understand the democratic party of all country .
 The communist disdain to hide their view and intention .
 They openly declare that their purpose can only be achieve through the violent overthrow of all previous social order .
 May the ruling class tremble before a communist revolution .
 The proletarian have nothing to lose in it but their chain .
 They have a world to win .
 Proletarians of all country , unite !
 Footnotes by Engels ( 1 ) The bourgeoisie be understood to mean the class of modern capitalist who own the mean of production in society and who exploit wage labor .
 Under the proletariat the class of modern wage worker who , since they have no mean of production of their own , be dependent on sell their labor in order to be able to live .
 [ Note from Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 < = ( 2 ) That be , to put it precisely , the write history .
 In 1847 the prehistory of society , the social organization that precede all write history , be still virtually unknown .
 Since then , Haxthausen have discover common land ownership in Russia , Maurer have prove it to be the social basis from which all German tribe historically assume , and gradually it be find that village community with common land ownership be the original form of society from India to Ireland .
 Eventually , the inner organization of this primitive communist society in its typical form be expose by Morgan 's crown discovery of the true nature of the gen and their tribe position .
 With the dissolution of these original community , the division of society into particular and ultimately opposing class begin .
 I have try to follow this process of dissolution in `` The Origin of the Family , Private Property and the State '' ; 2nd edition , Stuttgart 1886 .
 [ Note from Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 < = ( 3 ) The city emerge in France call themselves `` Commune '' , even before they give their feudal master local self-government and political right as `` third party . ''
 Stand `` be able to wrestle .
 Generally speak , we have cite England as a typical country for the economic development of the bourgeoisie and France for its political development .
 [ Comment by Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 This be what the townspeople of Italy and France call their urban community after they have buy or force the first right of self-government from their feudal lord .
 [ Note from Engels on the German edition of 1890 . ]
 < = ( 4 ) Not the English restoration period 1660-1689 , but the French restoration period 1814-1830 .
 [ Comment from Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 < = ( 5 ) This mainly refers to Germany , where the landed gentry and the Junkers have a large part of their good manage by their administrator for their own account and also have large producer of beet sugar and potato schnapps be .
 The richer English aristocrat have not come so far down ; but they , too , know how to make up for the decline in pension by give their name to more or less dubious founder of stock corporation .
 [ Note from Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 < = ( 6 ) The revolutionary storm of 1848 swept away this entire shabby direction and deprive its bearer of the desire to go far into socialism .
 The main representative and classic type of this direction be Mr. Karl Grün .
 [ Note from Engels on the German edition of 1890 . ]
 < = ( 7 ) Phalanstere be the name for the socialist colony plan by Charles Fourier ; Cabet call Icaria his utopia and later his communist colony in America .
 [ Comment from Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 Owen call his model communist society home colony .
 Phalanstere be the name of the social palace plan by Fourier .
 Icaria be the name of the utopian fantasy land whose communist institution Cabet describe .
 [ Comment from Engels on the German edition of 1890 . ]
 < = ( 8 ) The party that be then represent in Parliament by Ledru-Rollin , in literature by Louis Blanc and in the daily press by the `` Réforme '' .
 The name `` social democracy '' meant for those who invent it a section of the democratic or republican party with a more or less socialist coloring .
 [ Comment from Engels on the English edition of 1888 . ]
 The party in France that call itself socialist-democratic at the time be the one represent politically by Ledru-Rollin and literarily represent by Louis Blanc ; It be so different from today 's German social democracy .
 [ Comment from Engels on the German edition of 1890 . ]
