Gospel according to Matthew - 
Genealogy of Jesus Christ son of David, son of Abraham.
David the father of Solomon from Uriah's wife, Solomon the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abiah, Abiah the father of Asaph, Asaf the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, Joram the father of Ozia, Ozia the father of Ioatam, Joatham the father of Ahaz, Hezekiah the father of Ahaz He was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amos, Amos the father of Josiah, Josiah the father of Jeconia and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconia the father of Salatiel, Salatiel the father of Zorobabel, Zorobabel the father of Abiúd, Abiùd the father of Eliachim, Eliachim the father of Azor, Azor the father of Sadoc, Sadoc the father of Achim, Achim the father of Eliùd, Elliudan Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, called Christ.
In this way, all generations from Abraham to David are fourteen, from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen, from the deportation to Babylon to Christ fourteen.
This is how Jesus Christ was begotten: his mother Mary, being betrothed to Joseph, was found pregnant by the Holy Spirit before they went to live together.
All this took place in order to fulfill what the Lord had spoken through the prophet:
Behold, the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son:
he will be given the name of Emmanuel,
which means God with us.

Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the time of King Herod, behold, some Magi came from the east to Jerusalem and said: "Where is he who was born, the King of the Jews?
And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah,
you are not really the last of the main cities of Judah:
for a leader will come out of you
who will be the shepherd of my people, Israel. "
Then Herod, secretly called the Magi, asked them to tell him exactly the time when the star appeared and sent them to Bethlehem saying: "Go and find out carefully about the child and, when you have found him, let me know, because 'I come to adore him ».
When they heard the king, they left.
They had just left when an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said to him, "Get up, take the child and his mother with you, flee to Egypt and stay there until I warn you.
He got up in the night, took the child and his mother and fled to Egypt, where he remained until Herod's death, so that what the Lord had spoken through the prophet might be fulfilled:
From Egypt I called my son.
When Herod realized that the Magi had made fun of him, he was furious and sent to kill all the children who were in Bethlehem and in all its territory and who were two years and under, according to the time he had learned exactly.
A cry was heard in Rama,
a cry and a great lament:
Rachel weeps for her children
and does not want to be consoled,
because they are no longer.
Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt and said to him, "Get up, take the child and his mother with you and go to the land of Israel; in fact those who tried to kill the child died ».

In those days John the Baptist came and preached in the Judean desert saying: "Repent, because the kingdom of heaven is near!
For he is the one of whom the prophet Isaiah spoke when he said:
Voice of one crying in the desert:
Prepare the way of the Lord,
straighten its paths!
And he, John, wore a garment of camel hair and a leather belt around his hips; his food was grasshoppers and wild honey.
Then Jerusalem, all Judea and all the area along the Jordan flocked to him and were baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins.
When he saw many Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, 'Race of vipers!
Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
