 Calling his twelve disciple to himself , he give them power over impure spirit to drive them out and heal every disease and infirmity .
 The name of the twelve apostle be : first , Simon , call Peter , and Andrew his brother ; James , son of Zebedee , and John his brother ; Filippo and Bartolomeo ; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector ; Giacomo , son of Alfeo , and Taddeo ; Simon the Canaanite and Judas the Iscariot , the one who then betray him .
 These be the Twelve that Jesus send , order them : « Do not go among the pagan and do not enter the city of the Samaritans ; rather , turn to the lose sheep of the house of Israel .
 On the way , preach , say that the kingdom of heaven be near .
 Heal the sick , raise the dead , purify the leper , cast out demon .
 Freely you have receive , freely give .
 Do not get gold or silver or money in your belt , nor a travel bag , nor two tunic , nor sandal , nor a cane , because he who work have a right to his food .
 Whichever city or village you enter , ask who be worthy there and stay there until you be go .
 As you enter the house , greet her .
 If that house be worthy of it , let your peace descend on it ; but if it be not worthy , your peace return to you .
 And if someone do not welcome you and do not listen to your word , go out of that house or that city and shake the dust off your foot .
 Truly I tell you , on the day of judgment the land of Sodom and Gomorrah will be treat less harshly than that city .
 Behold : I be send you out like sheep among wolf ; therefore be prudent as serpent and simple as dove .
 Beware of men , for they will hand you over to the court and scourge you in their synagogue ; and you will be bring before governor and king for my sake , to give witness to them and to the Gentiles .
 But , when they deliver you , do not worry about how or what you will say , because at that hour what you have to say will be give to you : in fact , it be not you who speak , but the Spirit of your Father who speak in you .
 The brother will kill the brother and the father the child , and the child will rise up to accuse the parent and kill them .
 You will be hat by everyone because of my name .
 But whoever persevere to the end will be save .
 When you be persecute in one city , flee to another ; in truth I tell you : you will not have finish travel through the city of Israel , before the Son of man come .
 A disciple be not greater than the teacher , nor be a servant greater than his master ; it be enough for the disciple to become like his teacher and for the servant to become his master .
 If they have call the master of the house Beelzebul , how much more those of his family !
 So do not be afraid of them , for nothing be hide from you that will not be reveal , nor a secret that will not be know .
 What I tell you in the darkness you say in the light , and what you hear in the ear you announce from the terrace .
 And do not be afraid of those who kill the body , but have no power to kill the soul ; rather be afraid of him who have the power to destroy both soul and body in Geènna .
 Are not two sparrow sell for a penny ?
 Yet not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father 's will .
 Even the hair on your head be all numbered .
 So do not be afraid : you be worth more than many sparrow !
 Therefore whoever recognize me before men , I too will recognize him before my Father who be in heaven ; whoever deny me before men , I will also deny before my Father who be in heaven .
 Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth ; I have come to bring not peace , but a sword .
 In fact , I come to separate the man from his father and the daughter from his mother and the daughter-in-law from her mother-in-law ; and man 's enemy will be those of his house .
 Whoever love father or mother more than me be not worthy of me ; whoever love son or daughter more than me be not worthy of me ; whoever do not take up his cross and follow me be not worthy of me .
 Whoever keep his life to himself will lose it , and whoever lose his life for my sake will find it .
 Whoever welcome you welcomes me , and whoever welcome me welcome the one who send me .
 Whoever welcome a prophet because he be a prophet will have the reward of the prophet , and whoever welcome a just because he be a just will have the reward of the just .
 Whoever give even a single glass of fresh water to one of these little one to drink because he be a disciple , in truth I tell you : he will not lose his reward `` .
