 When Jesus have finish give these instruction to his twelve disciple , he leave there to teach and preach in their city .
 John , who be in prison , have hear about the work of Christ , send through his disciple to say : `` Are you the one who be to come or must we wait for another ? `` .
 Jesus answer them : `` Go and tell John what you hear and see : the blind regain their sight , the lame walk , the leper be purify , the deaf hear , the dead be raise , the poor be proclaim the Gospel .
 And bless be he who find no cause for scandal in me !
 » .
 While they be leave , Jesus begin to speak of John to the crowd : « What do you go out to see in the desert ?
 A reed flap by the wind ?
 So what do you go out to see ?
 A man dress in luxury clothes ?
 Behold , those who wear luxurious clothes be in the palace of king !
 Well , what do you go out to see ?
 A prophet ?
 Yes , I tell you , indeed , more than a prophet .
 He be the one of whom it be write :
 Behold , I be send my messenger before you ,
 he will prepare your way before you .
 Truly I tell you , among those born of woman there be none greater than John the Baptist ; but the smallest in the kingdom of heaven be greater than he .
 From the day of John the Baptist until now , the kingdom of heaven suffers violence and the violent take it over .
 In fact , all the Prophets and the Law prophesy up to John .
 And , if you want to understand , he be that Elijah who be to come .
 Who have ear , listen !
 Who can I compare this generation to ?
 It be similar to child who sit in the square and , turn to their companion , shout :
 `` We play the flute and you do n't dance ,
 we sing a lament and you do n't beat your breast !
 ” .
 John come , who do not eat or drink , and they say : `` He be demon-possessed '' .
 The Son of Man come , who eat and drink , and they say : `` Behold , he be a glutton and a drunkard , a friend of tax collector and sinner '' .
 But wisdom have be recognize as right for the work that it accomplish » .
 Then he begin to reproach the city in which most of his wonder have occur , because they have not convert : « Woe to you , Chorazìn !
 Woe to you , Bethsaida !
 Because , if the miracle that have be among you have occur in Tire and Sidon , they would have be convert for some time , dress in sackcloth and sprinkle with ash .
 Well , I tell you , on the day of judgment , Tire and Sidon will be treat less harshly than you .
 And you , Capernaum , will you be lift up to heaven ?
 You will fall to hell !
 Because , if the wonder that have be in your midst have occur in Sodom , today it would still exist !
 Well , I tell you : on the day of judgment , the land of Sodom will be treat less harshly than you !
 » .
 At that time Jesus say : “ I thank you , Father , Lord of heaven and earth , because you have hide these thing from the wise and learn and reveal them to little one .
 Yes , Father , because so you have decide in your benevolence .
 Everything have be give to me by my Father ; no one know the Son but the Father , and no one know the Father but the Son and the one to whom the Son wish to reveal him .
 Come to me , all you who be tire and burden , and I will give you refreshment .
 Take my yoke upon you and learn from me , who be meek and humble of heart , and you will find refreshment for your life .
 In fact , my yoke be sweet and my weight light » .
