 At that time Jesus pass , on the Sabbath day , among field of wheat and his disciple be hungry and begin to pluck ear and eat them .
 Seeing this , the Pharisees say to him , `` Look !
 Your disciple be do what be not lawful to do on the Sabbath . ''
 But he say to them , Did you not read what David do when he and his companion be hungry ?
 He enter the house of God and eat the offering loaf , which neither he nor his companion be allow to eat , but only priest .
 Or do you not read in the Law that on the Sabbath the priest in the temple violate the Sabbath and yet be blameless ?
 Now I tell you that there be a greater one here than the temple .
 If you have understand what it mean : Mercy I want and not sacrifice , you would not have condemn people without guilt .
 Because the Son of Man be Lord of the Sabbath `` .
 He leave there and go to their synagogue ; and here be a man who have a paralyzed hand .
 To accuse him , they ask Jesus : `` Is it lawful to be heal on the Sabbath ? ''
 And he answer them : `` Which of you , if he own a sheep and this one fall into a ditch on the Sabbath day , do n't grab it and pull it out ?
 Now , a man be worth more than a sheep !
 Therefore it be lawful to do good on Saturday. ``
 And he say to the man : `` Hold out your hand . ''
 He stretch it out and it return as healthy as the other .
 Then the Pharisees go out and hold council against him to put him to death .
 However , Jesus , have learn of this , go away from there .
 Many follow him and he heal them all and order them not to divulge it , so that what be say through the prophet Isaiah would be fulfil :
 Here be my servant whom I have choose ;
 my beloved , in whom I have place my satisfaction .
 I will put my spirit upon him
 and will declare justice to the nation .
 He will not contest or shout
 nor will his voice be hear in the street .
 He will not break an already crack reed ,
 will not put out a dead flame ,
 until he have make justice triumph ;
 in his name the nation will hope .
 At that time a demon-possessed , blind and mute man be bring to Jesus , and he heal him , so that the mute one spoke and saw .
 The whole crowd be amaze and say , `` Could this not be the son of David ? ''
 But the Pharisees , hear this , say , `` This man do not cast out demon except through Beelzebul , chief of the demon . ''
 However , know their thought , he say to them : « Every kingdom divide into itself fall into ruin and no city or family divide into itself can remain standing .
 Now , if Satan cast out Satan , he be divide in himself ; how then will his kingdom stand ?
 And if I cast out demon through Beelzebul , who cast your child out by whom ?
 That be why they will be your judge .
 But , if I cast out demon by the Spirit of God , then the kingdom of God have come to you .
 How can anyone enter the house of a strong man and steal his possession , if he do not first bind him ?
 Only then will he be able to ransack his house .
 Whoever be not with me be against me , and whoever do not gather with me scatter .
 Therefore I tell you : any sin and blasphemy will be forgive men , but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgive .
 Whoever speak against the Son of man will be forgive ; but whoever speak against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven , neither in this world nor in the future one .
 Take a good tree , its fruit will also be good .
 Take a bad tree , even its fruit will be bad : in fact , the tree be know by the fruit .
 Race of viper , how can you say good thing , you who be evil ?
 In fact , the mouth express what overflow from the heart .
 The good man from his good treasure bring out good thing , while the bad man from his bad treasure bring out bad thing .
 But I tell you : for every vain word that men will say , they will have to give an account on the day of judgment ; in fact on the basis of your word you will be justify and on the basis of your word you will be condemn » .
 Then some scribe and Pharisees say to him : `` Teacher , we want to see a sign from you . ''
 And he reply to them , 'An evil and adulterous generation be demand a sign !
 But no sign will be give to her , except the sign of Jonah the prophet .
 In fact , just as Jonah remain three day and three night in the belly of the fish , so the Son of man will remain three day and three night in the heart of the earth .
 On the day of judgment , those of Nineveh will rise up against this generation and condemn it , because they be convert to the preaching of Jonah .
 And behold , here be one greater than Jonah !
 On the day of judgment , the queen of the South will rise up against this generation and condemn it , because she come from the end of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon .
 And behold , here be one greater than Solomon !
 When the impure spirit come out of man , it wander through desert place look for relief , but find none .
 Then he say : `` I will return to my house , from which I come out '' .
 And , have come , he find it empty , swept and decorate .
 Then he go , take with him seven other spirit worse than him , they enter and take up residence there ; and the last condition of that man become worse than the first .
 So it will also happen to this wicked generation » .
 While he be still speak to the crowd , behold , his mother and brother be stand outside and try to speak to him .
 Someone say to him , `` Look , your mother and your brother be stand outside and try to talk to you . ''
 And he , answer those who speak to him , say , `` Who be my mother and who be my brother ? ''
 Then , extend his hand to his disciple , he say : « Here be my mother and my brother !
 Because whoever do the will of my Father who be in heaven , he be brother , sister and mother to me. ``
