 That day Jesus go out of the house and sit by the sea .
 Such a crowd gather around him that he get into a boat and sit down while the whole crowd stand on the beach .
 He speak to them of many thing in parable .
 And he say , Behold , the sower go out to sow .
 As he sow , some fell along the road ; the bird come and eat it .
 Another part fell on the stony ground , where there be not much land ; it sprout immediately , because the ground be not deep , but when the sun come up , it be burn and , have no root , wither away .
 Another part fell on the bramble , and the bramble grow and choke it .
 Another part fell on good soil and give fruit : one hundred , sixty , thirty for one .
 Who have ear , listen » .
 Then the disciple come up to him and say , `` Why do you speak to them in parable ? ''
 He reply to them , “ Because it be give to you to know the mystery of the kingdom of heaven , but to them it be not give .
 In fact , to him who have , it will be give and he will be in abundance ; but from him who do not have , even what he have will be take away .
 For this reason I speak to them in parable : because look they do not see , hear they do not listen and they do not understand .
 Thus be fulfil for them the prophecy of Isaiah which say :
 You will hear , yes , but you will not understand ,
 you will look , yes , but you will not see .
 Because the heart of this people have go numb ,
 they get hard of ear
 and they close their eye ,
 so that they do not see with their eye ,
 do not listen with their ear
 and do not understand with the heart
 and do not convert and I heal them !
 But bless be your eye because they see and your ear because they hear .
 Truly I tell you : many prophet and many righteous have desire to see what you be look at , but they do not see it , and to hear what you hear , but they do not hear it !
 So listen to the parable of the sower .
 Whenever one hear the word of the Kingdom and do not understand it , the Evil One come and steal what have be sow in his heart : this be the seed sow along the way .
 What have be sow on stony ground be he who hear the Word and immediately welcome it with joy , but he have no root in himself and be inconstant , so that , as soon as a tribulation or persecution because of the Word come , he immediately fade .
 .
 The one sown among the bramble be the one who listen to the Word , but the concern of the world and the seduction of wealth suffocate the Word and it bear no fruit .
 The one sown on good soil be the one who hear the Word and understand it ; the latter bear fruit and produce one hundred , sixty , thirty for one » .
 He teach them another parable , say : `` The kingdom of heaven be like a man who sow good seed in his field .
 But while everyone be sleep , his enemy come and sow weed among the wheat and go away .
 Then when the stem grow and bore fruit , the weed also sprout .
 Then the servant go to the master of the house and say to him , “ Lord , do you not sow good seed in your field ?
 Where do the weed come from ?
 ” .
 And he say to them , `` An enemy have do this ! ''
 And the servant say to him , `` Do you want us to go and pick it up ? ''
 “ No , he reply , lest it happen that , by gather the weed , you uproot the wheat with them .
 Let the one and the other grow together until the harvest and at the time of the harvest I will say to the reaper : First gather the weed and tie them in bundle to burn them ; instead put the wheat in my barn ” » .
 He teach them another parable , say : `` The kingdom of heaven be like a mustard seed , which a man take and sow in his field .
 It be the smallest of all seed but , once grow , it be larger than the other plant in the garden and become a tree , so much so that the bird of the sky come to make their nest in its branch `` .
 He tell them another parable : `` The kingdom of heaven be like leaven , which a woman take and mixed in three measure of flour , until it be all leaven . ''
 All these thing Jesus say to the crowd in parable and he speak to them only in parable , so that what have be say through the prophet might be fulfil :
 I will open my mouth with parable ,
 I will proclaim hidden thing from the foundation of the world .
 Then he dismiss the crowd and go into the house ; his disciple approach him to say : `` Explain to us the parable of the weed in the field . ''
 And he reply : `` He who sow the good seed be the Son of man .
 The field be the world and the good seed be the child of the Kingdom .
 The weed be the child of the Evil One and the enemy who sow them be the devil .
 The harvest be the end of the world and the reaper be the angel .
 Just as the weed be gather and burn in fire , so it will be at the end of the world .
 The Son of man will send his angel , who will gather from his kingdom all the scandal and all those who commit iniquity and will throw them into the fiery furnace , where there will be weep and gnashing of teeth .
 Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father .
 Who have ear , listen !
 The kingdom of heaven be like a treasure hidden in the field ; a man find it and hide it ; then he go , full of joy , sell all his possession and buy that field .
 The kingdom of heaven be also like a merchant who go in search of precious pearl ; have find a pearl of great value , he go , sell all his possession and buy it .
 Again , the kingdom of heaven be like a net cast into the sea , which gather all kind of fish .
 When it be full , the fisherman pull it ashore , sit down , collect the good fish in the basket and throw the bad one away .
 So it will be at the end of the world .
 The angel will come and separate the bad from the good and throw them into the fiery furnace , where there will be weep and gnashing of teeth .
 Have you understand all these thing ?
 » .
 They reply : `` Yes . ''
 And he say to them , `` For this reason every scribe who have become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven be like a householder who extract new thing and old thing from his treasury . ''
 Having finish these parable , Jesus leave there .
 When he come to his homeland , he teach in their synagogue and the people be amaze and say : « Where do you get this wisdom and wonder ?
 Is n't this the carpenter 's son ?
 And your mother , be n't her name Maria ?
 And his brother , James , Joseph , Simon and Judas ?
 And your sister , be n't they all with us ?
 Where do all these thing come from then ?
 » .
 And it be a cause of scandal for them .
 But Jesus say to them : `` A prophet be not despise except in his country and in his house . ''
 And there , because of their unbelief , he do n't do many wonder .
