 At that time the tetrarch Herod receive news of the fame of Jesus .
 He say to his courtier : « This be John the Baptist .
 He have rise from the dead and for this he have the power to work wonder !
 In fact , Herod have arrest John and have him chain and throw into prison because of Herodias , the wife of his brother Philip .
 In fact John use to say to him : `` It be not lawful for you to keep her with you ! ''
 Herod , although he want to kill him , be afraid of the crowd because he consider him a prophet .
 When it be Herod 's birthday , Herodias ' daughter dance in public and Herod like it so much that he swear to give her what she ask for .
 She , instigate by her mother , say : `` Give me here , on a tray , the head of John the Baptist . ''
 The king be sadden , but because of the oath and the diner he order it to be give to her and send to behead John in the prison .
 Her head be bring on a platter , it be give to the girl and she carry it to her mother .
 His disciple come to take the body , bury it and go to inform Jesus .
 Having hear this , Jesus leave there in a boat and withdraw to a deserted place by himself .
 But the crowd , have learn of this , follow him on foot from the city .
 Getting out of the boat , he saw a great crowd , felt compassion for them and heal their sick .
 Towards even the disciple approach him and say to him : « The place be desert and it be now late ; dismiss the crowd to go to the village to buy food » .
 But Jesus say to them : 'They do n't need to go ; you give them to eat » .
 They say to him , `` We have nothing here but five loaf and two fish ! ''
 And he say , `` Bring them here to me . ''
 And , after order the crowd to sit on the grass , he take the five loaf and the two fish , raise his eye to heaven , recite the blessing , break the loaf and give them to the disciple , and the disciple to the crowd .
 They all eat their fill , and take away the leftover piece - twelve full basket .
 Those who eat be about five thousand men , not count woman and child .
 Immediately afterwards he force the disciple to get into the boat and precede him to the other bank , until he dismiss the crowd .
 Having dismiss the crowd , he go up the mountain by himself to pray .
 When even come , he be up there , alone .
 Meanwhile the boat be already many mile from land and be shake by the wave : the wind be in fact against it .
 Towards the end of the night he go towards them walk on the sea .
 Seeing him walk on the sea , the disciple be shock and say : `` He be a ghost ! ''
 and they cry out in fear .
 But Jesus immediately speak to them say : « Courage , it be I , do not be afraid ! » .
 Peter then answer him , `` Lord , if it be you , command me to come to you on the water . ''
 And he say , `` Come ! ''
 Peter get out of the boat , start walk on the water and go towards Jesus .
 But , see that the wind be strong , he be afraid and , begin to sink , he shout : `` Lord , save me ! `` .
 And immediately Jesus reach out His hand , take hold of him and say to him , `` O you of little faith , why do you doubt ? ''
 As soon as they get into the boat , the wind stop .
 Those who be in the boat bow down before him , say , `` Truly you be the Son of God ! ''
 Having complete the crossing , they land at Gennèsaret .
 And the local people , recognize Jesus , spread the news throughout the region ; they bring him all the sick and beg him to be able to touch at least the hem of his cloak .
 And those who touch him be heal .
