 At that time some Pharisees and some scribe , who come from Jerusalem , approach Jesus and say to him : « Why do your disciple transgress the tradition of the ancient ?
 In fact when they take food they do not wash their hand !
 » .
 And he say to them , `` And you , why do you transgress the commandment of God in the name of your tradition ? ''
 God say : Honor your father and mother and furthermore : Whoever curse his father or mother should be put to death .
 Instead , you say : `` Whoever declare to his father or mother : What I should help you with be an offer to God , he be no longer require to honor his father '' .
 Thus you have annul the word of God with your tradition .
 Hypocrites !
 Well do Isaiah prophesy of you , say :
 This people honor me with their lip ,
 but his heart be far from me .
 In vain do they worship me ,
 teach doctrine which be precept of men ” .
 Then , when the crowd gather , he say to them : « Listen and understand well !
 What enter the mouth do not make man impure ; what come out of the mouth , this make man impure ! ``
 Then the disciple come up to say to him : `` Do you know that the Pharisees , hear this word , be scandalize ? `` .
 And he reply , “ Every plant that be not plant by my heavenly Father will be uproot .
 Leave them alone !
 They be blind and guide of the blind .
 And when a blind man lead another blind man , both of them will fall into a ditch !
 » .
 Peter then say to him : `` Tell us this parable . ''
 And he reply : `` Are you not yet capable of understand ? ''
 Do n't you understand that everything that enter the mouth , pass into the belly and be throw into a sewer ?
 Instead , what come out of the mouth come from the heart .
 This make man impure .
 From the heart , in fact , evil intention , murder , adultery , impurity , theft , false testimony , slander come .
 These be the thing that make man impure ; but eat without wash one 's hand do not make man impure `` .
 Leaving there , Jesus withdraw to the area of ​​Tire and Sidon .
 And behold , a Canaanite woman , who come from that region , begin to cry out : `` Have mercy on me , Lord , son of David ! ''
 My daughter be very torment by a demon » .
 But he do n't even say a word to her .
 Then his disciple approach him and beg him : `` Hear it out , because it come after us scream ! ''
 He reply : `` I be not send except to the lose sheep of the house of Israel . ''
 But she draw near and bow down before him , say , `` Lord , help me ! ''
 And he reply , `` It be not good to take the child 's bread and throw it to the dog . ''
 `` It 's true , Lord - say the woman - and yet the little dog eat the crumb that fall from their master ' table . ''
 Then Jesus reply to her : « Woman , great be your faith !
 May it happen for you as you wish » .
 And from that instant her daughter be heal .
 Jesus go away from there , come to the Sea of ​​Galilee , and go up the mountain and stood there .
 A large crowd gather around him , bring with them the lame , the lame , the blind , the deaf and many other sick people ; they lay them at his foot , and he heal them , so that the crowd be amaze to see the dumb speaking , the lame heal , the lame walking , and the blind seeing .
 And he praise the God of Israel .
 Then Jesus call his disciple to himself and say : « I feel compassion for the crowd .
 They have be with me for three day now and have nothing to eat .
 I do not want to postpone them fast , so that they do not fail along the way » .
 And the disciple say to him , `` How can we find so many loaf in a desert to fee such a large crowd ? ''
 Jesus ask them , `` How many loaf do you have ? ''
 They say , `` Seven , and a few little fish . ''
 After order the crowd to sit down on the ground , he take the seven loaf and the fish , give thanks , break them and give them to the disciple , and the disciple to the crowd .
 Everyone eat their fill .
 They take away the leftover piece : seven full bag .
 Those who eat be four thousand men , not count woman and child .
 Having send the crowd away , Jesus get into the boat and go to the region of Magadan .
