 The Pharisees and Sadducees come up to test him and ask him to show them a sign from heaven .
 But he reply to them : `` When even come , you say , 'The weather be good , because the sky be red '' ; and in the morning : “ Today a storm , because the sky be dark red ” .
 So , do you know how to interpret the appearance of the sky and be you unable to interpret the sign of the time ?
 An evil and adulterous generation demand a sign !
 But no sign will be give to her , if not the sign of Jonah » .
 He leave them and go away .
 On pass to the other bank , the disciple have forget to take bread .
 Jesus say to them : `` Be careful and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees . ''
 But they talk to each other and say , `` We have n't take any bread ! ''
 Jesus saw this and say : `` You of little faith , why be you say among yourselves that you have no bread ? ''
 Do you still not understand and remember the five loaf for the five thousand , and how many basket do you take away ?
 Nor the seven loaf for the four thousand , and how many basket have you collect ?
 How come you do n't understand that I be n't talk about bread ?
 Instead , beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees ” .
 Then they understand that he have not say to beware of the leaven of bread , but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees .
 When Jesus arrive in the region of Caesarèa di Filippo , he ask his disciple : `` Who do people say that the Son of man be ? ''
 They answer : `` Some say John the Baptist , others Elijah , others Jeremiah or some of the prophet . ''
 He say to them , `` But you , who do you say I be ? ''
 Simon Peter reply , `` You be the Christ , the Son of the living God . ''
 And Jesus say to him , `` Blessed be you , Simon , son of Jonah , for neither flesh nor blood have reveal it to you , but my Father who be in heaven .
 And I say to you : you be Peter and on this rock I will build my Church and the power of the underworld will not prevail over it .
 I will give you the key of the kingdom of heaven : everything you bind on earth will be bind in heaven , and everything you loose on earth will be loose in heaven. ``
 Then he command the disciple not to tell anyone that he be the Christ .
 From then on , Jesus begin to explain to his disciple that he have to go to Jerusalem and suffer much from the elder , the chief priest and the scribe , and be kill and resurrect on the third day .
 Peter take him aside and begin to scold him say : `` God forbid , Lord ; this will never happen to you » .
 But he , turn around , say to Peter : `` Get behind me , Satan !
 You be a scandal to me , because you do not think accord to God , but accord to men !
 » .
 Then Jesus say to his disciple : « If anyone want to come after me , he will deny himself , take up his cross and follow me .
 Because whoever want to save his life will lose it ; but whoever lose his life for my sake will find it .
 Indeed , what advantage will a man have if he gain the whole world but lose his life ?
 Or what can a man give in exchange for his life ?
 Because the Son of man be about to come in the glory of his Father , with his angel , and then he will reward each accord to his action .
 In truth I tell you : there be some among those present who will not die , before have see the Son of man come with his kingdom `` .
