 Six day later , Jesus take his brother Peter , James and John with him and lead them aside to a high mountain .
 And he be transfigure before them : his face shone like the sun and his clothes become white as light .
 And behold , there appear to them Moses and Elijah talk with him .
 Taking the floor , Peter say to Jesus : « Lord , it be good for us to be here !
 If you want , I will build three hut here , one for you , one for Moses and one for Elijah » .
 He be still speak when a bright cloud cover them with its shadow .
 And here be a voice from the cloud that say : `` This be my Son , the beloved : in him I have place my satisfaction .
 Listen to him » .
 Upon hear this , the disciple fell face down and be seize with great fear .
 But Jesus come near , touch them and say : `` Get up and do not be afraid '' .
 Looking up , they saw no one but Jesus alone .
 As they descend from the mountain , Jesus order them : `` Do not speak to anyone about this vision , before the Son of man have rise from the dead '' .
 Then the disciple ask him , `` Why then do the scribe say that Elijah must come first ? ''
 And he say , 'Yes , Elijah will come and restore all thing .
 But I tell you : Elijah have already come and they do not recognize him ; indeed , they do with him what they want .
 So also the Son of man will have to suffer through them `` .
 Then the disciple understand that he be speak to them about John the Baptist .
 As soon as they return to the crowd , a man approach Jesus who throw himself on his knee and say : « Lord , have mercy on my son !
 He be epileptic and suffer a lot ; it often fall into fire and often into water .
 I take him to your disciple , but they could n't heal him. ``
 And Jesus reply : « O incredulous and perverse generation !
 How long will I be with you ?
 How long will I have to put up with you ?
 Bring him here to me » .
 Jesus threaten him and the devil come out of him , and from that moment the boy be heal .
 Then the disciple approach Jesus on the sideline and ask him : `` Why do we not succeed in drive him out ? ''
 And he answer them , “ Because of your little faith .
 Truly I tell you : if you have faith equal to a mustard seed , you will say to this mountain : `` Move from here to there '' , and it will move , and nothing will be impossible for you. ``
 [ ]
 While they be together in Galilee , Jesus tell them : `` The Son of man be about to be deliver into the hand of men and they will kill him , but on the third day he will rise again '' .
 And they be very sadden .
 When they reach Capernaum , those who collect the temple tax come up to Peter and say , `` Does your teacher not pay the tax ? ''
 He reply : `` Yes . ''
 As he enter the house , Jesus forestall him say : « What do you think , Simon ?
 From whom do the king of the earth collect tax and duty ?
 From one 's own child or from stranger ? '
 He reply : `` From stranger . ''
 And Jesus reply : « Therefore the child be free .
 But , to avoid scandalize them , go to the sea , throw the hook and catch the first fish that come up , open its mouth and you will find a silver coin .
 Take it and deliver it to them for me and for you » .
