 At that moment the disciple approach Jesus say : `` Who then be greater in the kingdom of heaven ? `` .
 Then he call a child to himself , place him in their midst and say : “ Truly I tell you , unless you be convert and become like little child , you will not enter the kingdom of heaven .
 Therefore whoever shrink like this child , this one be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven .
 And whoever welcome a single child like this in my name welcome me .
 On the other hand , whoever scandalize only one of these little one who believe in me be better off have a millstone hang around his neck and thrown into the depth of the sea .
 Woe to the world for scandal !
 It be inevitable that scandal will arise , but woe to the man who cause scandal !
 If your hand or foot cause you to scandal , cut it off and throw it away from you .
 It be well for you to step into life maim or lame than with two hand or two foot to be throw into eternal fire .
 And if your eye cause you to scandal , tear it out and throw it away from you .
 It be well for you to enter life with one eye , rather than with two eye to be throw into the hell of fire .
 Be careful not to despise a single one of these little one , because I tell you that their angel in heaven always see the face of my Father who be in heaven .
 [ ]
 What do you think ?
 If a man have a hundred sheep and one of them go astray , will he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountain and go after the one that be lose ?
 Truly I tell you , if he can find it , he will rejoice over it more than the ninety-nine that be not lose .
 So it be the will of your Father who be in heaven that not even one of these little one get lose .
 If your brother commit a fault against you , go and warn him between you and him alone ; if he listen to you , you will have earn your brother ; if he wo n't listen , take a person or two with you again , so that everything be settle on the word of two or three witness .
 And if he do n't listen to them , tell the community ; and if he will not even listen to the community , let him be for you as the pagan and the publican .
 Truly I tell you , everything you bind on earth will be bind in heaven , and everything you loose on earth will be loose in heaven .
 In truth I tell you again : if two of you on earth agree to ask for anything , my Father who be in heaven will grant it to you .
 Because where two or three be gather in my name , there I be among them. ``
 Then Peter approach him and say to him : « Lord , if my brother commit sin against me , how many time must I forgive him ?
 Up to seven time ?
 » .
 And Jesus answer him : « I do n't tell you up to seven time , but up to seventy time seven .
 For this reason , the kingdom of heaven be like a king who want to settle account with his servant .
 He have begin to settle the score when he be introduce to a man who owe him ten thousand talent .
 Since he be unable to pay back , the master order that he be sell with his wife , child and all he possess , and so pay off the debt .
 Then the servant , prostrate on the ground , beg him , say : `` Have patience with me and I will give you everything back '' .
 The master take pity on that servant , let him go and forgive him the debt .
 As soon as he leave , that servant find one of his companion , who owe him a hundred denarii .
 She grab him by the neck and choke him , say , `` Give back what you owe ! ''
 His companion , prostrate on the ground , pray to him say : “ Have patience with me and I will give you back ” .
 But he do not want to , go and have him thrown in jail , until he have pay the debt .
 Given what be happen , his companion be very sorry and go to report to their master everything that have happen .
 Then the master call that man and say to him : `` You wicked servant , I forgive you all that debt because you beg me .
 Were n't you suppose to have pity on your companion , just as I pity you ?
 Outraged , the master hand him over to the torturer , until he have repay all due .
 So also my heavenly Father will do with you if you do not forgive from your heart , each one to his own brother » .
