 Genealogy of Jesus Christ son of David , son of Abraham .
 Abraham the father of Isaac , Isaac the father of Jacob , Jacob the father of Judah and his brother , Judah the father of Fares and Zara from Tamar , Fares the father of Esrom , Esrom the father of Aram , Aram the father of Aminadab , Aminadab the father of Naasson , Naassòn the father of Salmon , Salmon the father of Boaz of Racab , Booz he beget Obed from Ruth , Obed begat Jesse , Jesse begat king David .
 David the father of Solomon from Uriah 's wife , Solomon the father of Rehoboam , Rehoboam the father of Abiah , Abiah the father of Asaph , Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat , Jehoshaphat the father of Joram , Joram the father of Ozia , Ozia the father of Ioatam , Ioatam the father of Ahaz , Hezekiah he beget Manasseh , Manasseh begat Amos , Amos begat Josiah , Josiah begat Jeconia and his brother , at the time of the deportation to Babylon .
 After the deportation to Babylon , Jeconia be the father of Salatiel , Salatiel the father of Zorobabel , Zorobabel the father of Abiúd , Abiùd the father of Eliachim , Eliachim the father of Azor , Azor the father of Sadoc , Sadoc the father of Achim , Achim the father of Eliud , Eliud , Eleazar the father of Eleaz Jacob father Joseph , the husband of Mary , from whom be bear Jesus , call Christ .
 Thus , all the generation from Abraham to David be fourteen , from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen , from the deportation to Babylon to Christ fourteen .
 Thus be Jesus Christ born : his mother Mary , be betroth to Joseph , before they go to live together she be find pregnant by the work of the Holy Spirit .
 Her husband Joseph , since he be a just man and do not want to accuse her publicly , thought of divorce her in secret .
 But while he be consider these thing , behold , an angel of the Lord appear to him in a dream and say to him , “ Joseph , son of David , do not be afraid to take Mary your bride with you .
 In fact the child that be generate in her come from the Holy Spirit ; she will give birth to a son and you will call him Jesus : for he will save his people from their sin ” .
 All this take place in order to fulfill what the Lord have say through the prophet :
 Behold , the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son :
 he will be give the name of Emmanuel ,
 which mean God with us .
 When he awake from sleep , Joseph do as the angel of the Lord have order him and take his bride with him ; without his know her , she give birth to a son and he name him Jesus .
