 The kingdom of heaven be like a landlord who go out at dawn to hire worker for his vineyard .
 He agree with them for one denarius a day and send them to his vineyard .
 Then when he go out about nine in the morning , he saw others stand in the square , unemployed , and he say to them : “ You also go into the vineyard ; what be right I will give you ” .
 And they go .
 He go out again about noon , and about three , and do the same .
 When he go out again about five o'clock , he saw others stand there and say to them : `` Why be you stand here all day do nothing ? ''
 They reply : `` Because no one have take us by the day . ''
 And he say to them , `` You also go into the vineyard . ''
 When it be even , the owner of the vineyard say to his farmer : `` Call the worker and give them their pay , start with the last one up to the first '' .
 The five o'clock in the afternoon come and each receive a denarius .
 When the first come , they think they would receive more .
 But they too receive a denarius each .
 In withdraw it , however , they murmur against the master say : `` The latter work only an hour and you treat them like us , who have bear the weight of the day and the heat '' .
 But the master , answer one of them , say : “ Friend , I be not do you wrong .
 Did n't you agree with me for a denarius ?
 Take yours and go .
 But I also want to give the latter as much as you do : ca n't I do what I want with my thing ?
 Or be you envious because I be good ?
 ” .
 So the last will be first and the first , last » .
 As he be go up to Jerusalem , Jesus take the twelve disciple aside and along the way he say to them : `` Behold , we be go up to Jerusalem and the Son of Man will be hand over to the chief priest and scribe ; they will condemn him to death and hand him over to the pagan to be mock and scourge and crucify , and on the third day he will rise again » .
 Then the mother of the son of Zebedee approach him with her son and bow down to ask him something .
 He say to her , `` What do you want ? ''
 He reply , `` Tell these two son of mine to sit one on your right and one on your leave in your kingdom . ''
 Jesus answer : You do not know what you be ask .
 Can you drink the cup that I be about to drink ?
 » .
 They tell him : `` We can . ''
 And he say to them , 'My cup you will drink ; but to sit on my right and on my left be not up to me to grant it : it be for those for whom my Father have prepare it » .
 The other ten , have hear , be indignant with the two brother .
 But Jesus call them to him and say : “ You know that the ruler of the nation rule over them and the ruler oppress them .
 It will not be like this among you ; but whoever want to become great among you will be your servant and whoever want to be first among you will be your slave .
 Like the Son of man , who do not come to be serve , but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many `` .
 As they be leave Jericho , a large crowd follow him .
 And behold , two blind men sit by the road , hear Jesus passing by , cry out , say , `` Lord , son of David , have mercy on us ! ''
 The crowd scold them for keep silent ; but they cry out even louder : `` Lord , son of David , have mercy on us ! ''
 Jesus stop , call them and say , `` What do you want me to do for you ? ''
 They answer him , `` Lord , may our eye be open ! ''
 Jesus have compassion , touch their eye and they instantly recover their sight and follow him .
