 Jesus resume speak to them in parable and say : “ The kingdom of heaven be like a king , who make a wedding feast for his son .
 He send his servant to call the wedding guest , but they do not want to come .
 He send other servant again with this order : `` Tell the guest : Behold , I have prepare my lunch ; my ox and fatten animal be already kill and everything be ready ; come to the wedding !
 ” .
 But they do n't care and some go to their own camp , some to their business ; others then take his servant , insult them and kill them .
 Then the king be indignant : he send his troop , have those murderer kill , and set their city on fire .
 Then he say to his servant : “ The wedding feast be ready , but the guest be not worthy ; go now to the crossroad and all those you will find , call them to the wedding ” .
 When they go out into the street , those servant gather everyone they find , bad and good , and the wedding hall be fill with diner .
 The king enter to see the diner and there he saw a man who be not wear a wedding dress .
 He say to him : `` Friend , why do you come here without your wedding dress ? `` .
 That fell silent .
 Then the king command the servant : “ Bind him hand and foot and throw him out into the darkness ; there will be weep and gnashing of teeth ” .
 Because many be call , but few be choose ” .
 Then the Pharisees go away and hold council to see how to catch him in his speech .
 So they send their disciple to him , along with the Herodians , to tell him : « Master , we know that you be truthful and teach the way of God accord to truth .
 You be not in awe of anyone , because you do not look anyone in the face .
 So , tell us your opinion : be it lawful , or not , to pay the tax to Caesar ? ``
 But Jesus , know their malice , reply : « You hypocrite , why do you want to test me ?
 Show me the coin of the tax » .
 And they present him with a denarius .
 He ask them : `` This image and the inscription , whose be they ? `` .
 They answer him , `` Caesar 's . ''
 Then he say to them , `` Pay back to Caesar what belong to Caesar and to God what belong to God . ''
 At these word they be amaze , they leave him and go away .
 On that same day some Sadducees come to him - who say there be no resurrection - and ask him : `` Master , Moses say : If a man die childless , his brother will marry his wife and give offspring to his brother .
 Now , there be seven brother among us ; the first , just marry , die and , have no descendant , leave his wife to his brother .
 So also the second , and the third , up to the seventh .
 Eventually , after all , the woman die .
 In the resurrection , then , to which of the seven will she be wife ?
 Since they all have her as a wife `` .
 And Jesus answer them : « You be deceive , because you do not know the Scriptures or even the power of God .
 In fact , at the resurrection we do not marry or marry , but we be like angel in heaven .
 As for the resurrection of the dead , have you not read what God say to you : I be the God of Abraham , the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob ?
 He be not the God of the dead , but of the living !
 » .
 The crowd , hear this , be amaze by his teaching .
 Then the Pharisees , have heard that he have shut the mouth of the Sadducees , gather together and one of them , a doctor of the Law , ask him to test him : `` Teacher , in the Law , what be the great commandment ? ''
 He reply , “ You will love the Lord your God with all your heart , with all your soul and with all your mind .
 This be the great and first commandment .
 The second then be similar to that : You will love your neighbor as yourself .
 All the Law and the Prophets depend on these two commandment ” .
 While the Pharisees be gather together , Jesus ask them : “ What do you think of Christ ?
 Whose son be he ?
 » .
 They say to him , `` David 's . ''
 He say to them , `` How then be it that David , move by the Spirit , call him Lord , say :
 The Lord say to my Lord :
 Sit on my right
 until I place your enemy
 under your foot ?
 So if David call him Lord , how can he be his son ?
 » .
 No one be able to answer him and , from that day , no one dare to question him .
