 Then Jesus address the crowd and his disciple , say : « The scribe and the Pharisees sit on the chair of Moses .
 Practice and observe everything they tell you , but do not act accord to their work , because they say and do not .
 In fact , they tie heavy and difficult to carry burden and place them on people 's shoulder , but they do n't want to move them even with a finger .
 They do all their work to be admire by the people : they widen their filattèri and lengthen the fringe ; they be pleased with the place of honor at banquet , the first seat in the synagogue , the greeting in the square , as well as be call `` rabbi '' by the people .
 But do n't let yourselves be call “ rabbi ” , because only one be your Master and you be all brother .
 And do not call any of you on earth `` father '' , because only one be your Father , the heavenly one .
 And do not be call `` guide '' , because only one be your Guide , the Christ .
 Whoever be greatest among you will be your servant ; but whoever exalt himself will be humble and whoever humbles himself will be exalt .
 Woe to you , scribe and Pharisees , hypocrite , who shut up the kingdom of heaven before the people ; in fact you do not enter , and do not let even those who want to enter .
 [ ]
 Woe to you , scribe and Pharisees hypocrite , who travel the sea and the land to make one proselyte and , when he have become one , make him twice as worthy of Gehenna as you be .
 Woe to you , blind guide , who say , “ If anyone swears by the temple , it count for nothing ; if , on the other hand , one swears by the gold of the temple , he remain obliged `` .
 Fools and blind !
 What be greater : gold or the temple that make gold sacred ?
 And you say again : `` If one swears by the altar , it count for nothing ; if , on the other hand , one swears by the offer on it , he remain obliged `` .
 Blind !
 What be greater : the offering or the altar that make the offering sacred ?
 Well , whoever swear by the altar swears by the altar and by everything on it ; and whoever swears by the temple swears by the temple and by the One who dwell in it .
 And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by Him who be seat on it .
 Woe to you , scribe and hypocritical Pharisees , who pay tithe on the mint , the anéto and the cumìno , and transgress the most serious prescription of the Law : justice , mercy and fidelity .
 These be the thing to do , not to mention those .
 Blind guide , who filter the gnat and swallow the camel !
 Woe to you , scribe and hypocritical Pharisees , who clean the outside of the glass and plate , but inside be full of greed and intemperance .
 Blind Pharisee , first clean the inside of the glass , so that the outside becomes clean too !
 Woe to you , scribe and hypocritical Pharisees , who look like whitewash tomb : on the outside they look beautiful , but inside they be full of the bone of the dead and all rot .
 So you too : on the outside you appear righteous in front of the people , but inside you be full of hypocrisy and iniquity .
 Woe to you , scribe and hypocritical Pharisees , who build the tomb of the prophet and adorn the tomb of the righteous , and say : `` If we have live in the time of our father , we would not have be accomplice in shed the blood of the prophet . ''
 Thus you testify against yourselves that you be child of those who kill the prophet .
 Well , you fill the measure of your father .
 Snakes , race of viper , how can you escape the condemnation of Geènna ?
 Therefore behold , I be send to you prophet , sage and scribe : of these , some you will kill and crucify , others you will scourge in your synagogue and persecute them from city to city ; so that all the innocent blood shed on earth may fall upon you , from the blood of Abel the righteous to the blood of Zechariah , son of Barachi , whom you kill between the sanctuary and the altar .
 Truly I tell you , all these thing will fall upon this generation .
 Jerusalem , Jerusalem , you who kill the prophet and stone those who be send to you , how many time have I want to gather your child , like a hen gather her chick under her wing , and you do not want to !
 Behold , your home be leave to you desert !
 In fact , I tell you that you will no longer see me , until you say :
 Blessed be he who come in the name of the Lord !
 » .
