 While Jesus , have leave the temple , be leave , his disciple approach him to show him the building of the temple .
 He say to them , `` Do n't you see all these thing ? ''
 Truly I tell you , stone upon stone will not be leave here , which will not be destroyed. ``
 At the Mount of Olives then , sit down , the disciple approach him and , on the sideline , say to him : `` Tell us when these thing will happen and what will be the sign of your come and of the end of the world '' .
 Jesus reply to them : `` See that no one deceive you !
 For many will come in my name , say , `` I be the Christ , '' and will mislead many .
 And you will hear of war and rumor of war .
 Be careful not to be alarm , because it have to happen , but it be not yet the end .
 For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom ; there will be famine and earthquake in various place : but all this be only the beginning of the pain .
 Then they will abandon you to tribulation and kill you , and you will be hat by all people on account of my name .
 Many will be scandalize , and will betray and hate each other .
 Many false prophet will arise and deceive many ; due to the spread of iniquity , the love of many will grow cold .
 But whoever persevere to the end will be save .
 This gospel of the Kingdom will be announce throughout the world , so that all people may witness it ; and then the end will come .
 Therefore , when you see the abomination of devastation present in the holy place , of which the prophet Daniel speak - whoever read , understand - then those who be in Judea flee to the mountain , whoever be on the terrace do not go down to take the thing of his house .
 and he who be in the field do not go back to take his cloak .
 In those day woe to pregnant woman and those who breastfeed !
 Pray that your escape do not happen in winter or on a Saturday .
 For there will then be a great tribulation , such as there have never be from the beginning of the world until now , and never will be again .
 And if those day be n't shorten , no one would be save ; but , thanks to the elect , those day will be shorten .
 So , if someone say to you : `` Behold , Christ be here '' , or `` He be there '' , do not believe it ; because false Christs and false prophet will arise and perform great sign and miracle , so as to deceive , if possible , even the elect .
 Here , I have foretell it .
 So if they say to you , `` Look !
 He be in the desert , '' do not go there ; “ Here , he be in the house ” , do n't believe it .
 In fact , as the lightning come from the east and shine as far as the west , so will the come of the Son of man be .
 Wherever the corpse be , there the vulture will gather .
 Immediately after the tribulation of those day ,
 the sun will darken ,
 the moon will no longer give its light ,
 the star will fall from the sky
 and the power of the heaven will be shake .
 Then the sign of the Son of man will appear in heaven and then all the tribe of the earth will beat their breast , and they will see the Son of man come on the cloud of heaven with great power and glory .
 He will send his angel with a great trumpet , and they will gather his chosen one from the four wind , from one end of the heaven to the other .
 Learn the parable from the fig tree : when its branch become tender and the leaf appear , you know that summer be near .
 So too : when you see all these thing , know that he be near , he be at the door .
 In truth I tell you : this generation will not pass before all this happen .
 Heaven and earth will pass away , but my word will not pass .
 As for that day and hour , no one know , neither the angel of heaven nor the Son , but only the Father .
 As be the day of Noah , so will the come of the Son of man be .
 In fact , as in the day before the flood they eat and drank , married and take in husband , until the day that Noah enter the ark , and they do not notice anything until the flood come and overwhelm everyone : so will the come of the Son of man .
 Then two men will be in the field : one will be take away and the other left .
 Two woman will be grind at the mill : one will be take away and the other left .
 Watch therefore , for you do not know on what day your Lord will come .
 Try to understand this : if the landlord know at what time of night the thief be come , he would keep watch and would not allow his house to be break into .
 Therefore , you too get ready because , at an hour you do not imagine , the Son of man be come .
 Who then be the trustworthy and prudent servant whom the master have place in charge of his servant to give them food in due time ?
 Blessed be that servant whom his master , on arriving , will find do so !
 Truly I tell you : he will put him in charge of all his possession .
 But if that wicked servant say in his heart , `` My master be late '' , and start beat his companion and eating and drinking with drunkard , that servant 's master will come a day when he do n't expect it , and at some point now that he do not know , he will punish him severely and inflict the fate that the hypocrite deserve : there will be weep and gnashing of teeth .
