 Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgin who take their lamp and go out to meet the bridegroom .
 Five of them be foolish and five be wise ; the foolish take their lamp , but do not take the oil with them ; the wise one , on the other hand , together with their lamp , also take the oil in small jar .
 As the bridegroom be late , they all fell asleep and fell asleep .
 At midnight a cry rise : “ Here be the bridegroom !
 Go to meet him !
 ” .
 Then all those virgin get up and set up their lamp .
 The foolish say to the wise : `` Give us some of your oil , because our lamp go out . ''
 The wise one answer : “ No , lest it fail us and you ; rather go to the seller and buy some ” .
 Now , while they be go to buy oil , the bridegroom arrive and the virgin who be ready enter the wedding with him , and the door be close .
 Later the other virgin also arrive and begin to say : `` Lord , sir , open to us ! `` .
 But he reply , `` Truly I tell you , I do not know you . ''
 Watch therefore , because you know neither the day nor the hour .
 Indeed , it will happen as to a man who , set out on a journey , call his servant and hand them his good .
 To one he give five talent , to another two , to another one , accord to the ability of each ; then he leave .
 Immediately the one who have receive five talent go to employ them , and earn five more .
 So even the one who have receive two earn two more .
 But the one who have receive only one talent go to make a hole in the ground and hide his master 's money there .
 After a long time the master of those servant return and want to settle account with them .
 The one who have receive five talent come forward and bring five more , say , “ Lord , you give me five talent ; behold , I have earn another five ” .
 “ Well , good and faithful servant - his master tell him - , you have be faithful in little , I will give you power over much ; take part in the joy of your master ” .
 Then the one who have receive two talent come forward and say , “ Lord , you have give me two talent ; here , I have earn two more ” .
 “ Well , good and faithful servant - his master tell him - , you have be faithful in little , I will give you power over much ; take part in the joy of your master ” .
 Finally the one who have receive only one talent also come forward and say : “ Lord , I know you be a hard man , who reap where you have not sow and reap where you have not scatter .
 I be afraid and go to hide your talent under the ground : this be what be yours ” .
 The master answer him : “ You wicked and lazy servant , you know that I reap where I have not sow and gather where I have not scatter ; you should have entrust my money to the banker and so , return , I would have withdraw mine with interest .
 So take the talent from him , and give it to him who have ten talent .
 Because whoever have , will be give and will be in abundance ; but whoever do not have , even what he have will be take away .
 And throw the useless servant out into the darkness ; there will be weep and gnashing of teeth ” .
 When the Son of man come in his glory , and all the angel with him , he will sit on the throne of his glory .
 All people will be gather before him .
 He will separate one from the other , as a shepherd separate the sheep from the goat , and will place the sheep on his right and the goat on his left .
 Then the king will say to those on his right : “ Come , bless of my Father , inherit the kingdom prepare for you since the creation of the world , because I be hungry and you give me food , I be thirsty and I you give me drink , I be a stranger and you welcome me , naked and you dress me , I be sick and you visit me , I be in prison and you come to see me ” .
 Then the righteous will answer him : “ Lord , when do we see you hungry and give you to eat , or thirsty and give you to drink ?
 When have we ever see you a stranger and welcome you , or naked and dress you ?
 When have we ever see you sick or in prison and come to visit you ?
 ” .
 And the king will answer them : `` Truly I tell you : everything you do to one of these least of my brother , you do to me '' .
 Then he will also say to those on the left : `` Go away from me , curse one , into the eternal fire , prepare for the devil and his angel , because I be hungry and you do n't give me food , I be thirsty and you give me a drink , I be a stranger and you do n't welcome me , naked and you do n't dress me , sick and in prison and you do n't visit me ” .
 Then they too will reply : `` Lord , when do we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison , and we do n't serve you ? `` .
 Then he will answer them : `` Truly I tell you : whatever you do not do to one of the least of these , you do not do to me '' .
 And they will go : these to eternal torture , the righteous instead to eternal life » .
