 After all these speech , Jesus say to his disciple : `` You know that in two day it be Easter and the Son of man will be hand over to be crucify '' .
 Then the chief priest and the elder of the people gather in the palace of the high priest , who be call Caiaphas , and hold council to capture Jesus by deception and put him to death .
 But they say : `` Not during the feast , so that there be no revolt among the people . ''
 While Jesus be in Bethany , in the house of Simon the leper , a woman who have an alabaster vase , full of very precious perfume , approach him and pour it on his head while he be at table .
 The disciple , see this , be indignant and say : « Why this waste ?
 It could be sell for a lot of money and give to the poor !
 » .
 But Jesus notice this and say to them : « Why be you bother this woman ?
 She have do a good deed towards me .
 In fact , you always have the poor with you , but you do n't always have me .
 By pour this perfume on my body , she do it with a view to my burial .
 In truth I tell you : wherever this Gospel be proclaim , in the whole world , what she do will also be tell in memory of her .
 Then one of the Twelve , call Judas Iscariot , go to the chief priest and say , `` How much do you want to give me so that I can deliver it to you ? ''
 And they give him thirty silver coin .
 From that moment he be look for the right opportunity to deliver it .
 On the first day of Unleavened Bread , the disciple approach Jesus and say to him : `` Where do you want us to prepare for you , so that you can eat the Passover ? `` .
 And he reply , 'Go to a man in the city and tell him : ' The Master say : My time be near ; I will make Easter from you with my disciple ” » .
 The disciple do as Jesus have instruct them , and prepare the Passover .
 When even come , he sit down to table with the Twelve .
 As they eat , he say , `` Truly I tell you , one of you will betray me . ''
 And they , deeply sadden , each begin to ask him : `` Is it me , Lord ? `` .
 And he reply , 'He who have put his hand in the dish with me be the one who will betray me .
 The Son of man go away , as it be write about him ; but woe to that man by whom the Son of man be betray !
 Better for that man if he have never be bear ! ``
 Judas , the traitor , say , `` Rabbi , be it me ? ''
 He reply : `` You say so . ''
 Now , while they be eat , Jesus take the bread , recite the blessing , break it and , as he give it to the disciple , say : `` Take , eat : this be my body . ''
 Then he take the cup , give thanks and give it to them , say : `` Everyone drink of it , for this be my blood of the covenant , which be shed for many for the forgiveness of sin .
 I tell you that from now on I will not drink this fruit of the vine until the day I drink it new with you , in my Father 's kingdom. ``
 After sing the hymn , they go out to the Mount of Olives .
 Then Jesus say to them : « Tonight I will be a cause of scandal for all of you .
 In fact , it be write :
 I 'll beat the pastor
 and the sheep of the flock will be scatter .
 But , after I be risen , I will go before you to Galilee » .
 Peter say to him : `` If everyone be scandalize by you , I will never be scandalize . ''
 Jesus say to him , `` Truly I tell you , this night , before the rooster crow , you will deny me three time . ''
 Peter answer him , `` Even if I die with you , I will not deny you . ''
 The same say all the disciple .
 Then Jesus go with them to a farm , call Gethsemane , and say to the disciple : `` Sit here while I go over there to pray . ''
 And , take with him Peter and the two son of Zebedee , he begin to feel sadness and anguish .
 And he say to them : « My soul be sad until death ; stay here and watch with me » .
 He go a little further , fell face down and prayed , say : « My Father , if it be possible , pas this cup away from me !
 But not as I want , but as you want !
 » .
 Then he come to the disciple and find them asleep .
 And he say to Peter : « So you have not be able to watch with me for one hour ?
 Watch and pray , so as not to enter into temptation .
 The spirit be ready , but the flesh be weak » .
 He go away a second time and prayed , say : `` My Father , if this cup can not pass away without my drinking it , your will be do . ''
 Then he come and find them asleep again , because their eye have grow heavy .
 He leave them , walk away again and pray for the third time , repeat the same word .
 Then he approach the disciple and say to them : « You can sleep and rest !
 Behold , the hour be near and the Son of man be hand over to sinner .
 Get up , let 's go !
 Behold , he who betray me be near » .
 While he be still speak , Judas , one of the Twelve , arrive and with him a great crowd with sword and club , send by the chief priest and the elder of the people .
 The traitor have give them a sign , say : “ The one I will kiss be him ; arrest him !
 » .
 Immediately he approach Jesus and say : `` Hello , Rabbi ! ''
 And kiss him .
 And Jesus say to him : `` Friend , this be why you be here ! ''
 Then they come forward , lay their hand on Jesus and arrest him .
 And behold , one of those who be with Jesus take up his sword , draw it , and strike the high priest 's servant , cut off his ear .
 Then Jesus say to him , 'Put your sword back in its place , for all who take the sword will die by the sword .
 Or do you think I can not pray to my Father , who would immediately place more than twelve legion of angel at my disposal ?
 But then how would the Scriptures be fulfil , accord to which it must happen ?
 » .
 At that same moment Jesus say to the crowd : « As if I be a thief you have come to take me with sword and club .
 Every day I sit in the temple teaching , and you do n't arrest me .
 But all this take place so that the Scriptures of the prophet would be fulfil » .
 Then all the disciple abandon him and flee .
 Those who have arrest Jesus take him to the high priest Caiaphas , with whom the scribe and the elder have gather .
 Meanwhile , Peter have follow him from afar to the palace of the high priest ; he go in and sit among the servant to see how it would turn out .
 The chief priest and the whole Sanhedrin seek a false testimony against Jesus , to put him to death ; but they do not find it , although many false witness have present themselves .
 Finally two of them show up , say , `` This man declare : ' I can destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three day ' '' .
 The high priest stand up and say to him : « Are you not answer anything ?
 What do they testify against you ?
 » .
 But Jesus be silent .
 Then the high priest say to him : `` I beseech you , by the living God , to tell us if you be the Christ , the Son of God . ''
 `` You say it - Jesus reply - ; indeed I tell you :
 from now on you will see the Son of man
 seat to the right of the Power
 and come on the cloud of heaven » .
 Then the high priest tear his clothes say : « He have blaspheme !
 What further need do we have of witness ?
 Behold , now you have hear the blasphemy ; what do you think ?
 » .
 And they answer , `` He be guilty of death ! ''
 Then they spat in his face and beat him ; others slap him , say : `` Be a prophet for us , Christ !
 Who be it that strike you ?
 » .
 Meanwhile Peter be sit outside in the courtyard .
 A young servant come up to him and say : `` You too be with Jesus , the Galilean ! ''
 But he deny it in front of everyone say : `` I do n't understand what you be say . ''
 As he go out towards the hall , another servant saw him and say to those present : `` This man be with Jesus , the Nazarene . ''
 But he deny it again , swearing : `` I do n't know that man ! ''
 After a while , those present approached and say to Peter : `` It 's true , you too be one of them : in fact your accent betrays you ! ''
 Then he begin to swear and swear : `` I do n't know that man ! ''
 And immediately a rooster crow .
 And Peter remember the word of Jesus , who have say : `` Before the rooster crow , you will deny me three time . ''
 And , come out , he weep bitterly .
