 After Saturday , at dawn on the first day of the week , Maria di Magdala and the other Maria go to visit the tomb .
 And behold , there be a great earthquake .
 An angel of the Lord , in fact , descend from heaven , approach , roll the stone and sit down on it .
 Her appearance be like lightning and her dress as white as snow .
 To the fear they have of him , the guard be shake and remain as dead .
 The angel say to the woman : `` Do not be afraid !
 I know you be look for Jesus , the crucifix .
 It be not here .
 He be rise , in fact , as he say ; come , look at the place where he be lay .
 Quickly , go and tell his disciple : “ He have rise from the dead , and behold , he be go ahead of you to Galilee ; there you will see it ” .
 Here , I tell you. ``
 Quickly leave the tomb with fear and great joy , the woman run to give the announcement to his disciple .
 And behold , Jesus meet them and say , `` Greetings to you ! ''
 And they come and embrace his foot and worship him .
 Then Jesus say to them , “ Do not be afraid ; go and announce to my brother that they go to Galilee : there they will see me » .
 While they be on their way , behold , some of the guard come into the city and announce to the chief priest everything that have happen .
 These then meet with the elder and , after consult each other , give a good sum of money to the soldier , say : `` Say like this : '' His disciple come in the night and steal it while we slept. ``
 And if it ever come to the governor 's ear , we will persuade him and free you from all worries. ``
 They take the money and do accord to the instruction receive .
 So this story have spread among the Jews to this day .
 The eleven disciple , meanwhile , go to Galilee , to the mountain that Jesus have indicate to them .
 When they saw him , they prostrate themselves .
 But they doubt .
 Jesus come up and say to them , “ All power in heaven and on earth have be give to me .
 Go therefore and make disciple of all people , baptize them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit , teach them to observe all that I have command you .
 And behold , I be with you all the day , until the end of the world » .
