 Jesus be bear in Bethlehem of Judea , at the time of King Herod , behold , some Magi come from the east to Jerusalem and say : `` Where be he who be bear , the King of the Jews ?
 We saw his star rise and we come to worship him » .
 Upon hear this , King Herod be trouble and all Jerusalem with him .
 Gathering all the chief priest and scribe of the people , he inquire of them about the place where Christ be to be bear .
 They say to him , 'In Bethlehem of Judea , for thus it be write through the prophet :
 And you , Bethlehem , land of Judah ,
 you be not really the last of the main city of Judah :
 for a leader will come out of you
 who will be the shepherd of my people , Israel. ``
 Then Herod , secretly call the Magi , ask them to tell him exactly the time when the star appear and send them to Bethlehem say : `` Go and find out carefully about the child and , when you have find him , let me know , because ' I come to adore him » .
 Having hear the king , they leave .
 And behold , the star , which they have see rise , precede them , until it come and stand over the place where the child be .
 Upon see the star , they felt great joy .
 Entering the house , they saw the child with Mary his mother , they bow down and worship him .
 Then they open their casket and offer him gift of gold , frankincense and myrrh .
 Warned in a dream not to return to Herod , they return to their country by another way .
 They have just leave when an angel of the Lord appear to Joseph in a dream and say to him : `` Get up , take the child and his mother with you , flee to Egypt and stay there until I warn you : Herod want to look for the child to kill him .
 `` .
 He get up in the night , take the child and his mother and take refuge in Egypt , where he remain until the death of Herod , so that what have be say by the Lord through the prophet would be fulfil :
 From Egypt I call my son .
 When Herod realize that the Magi have make fun of him , he be furious and send to kill all the child who be in Bethlehem and throughout its territory and who be two year down , accord to the time he have learn exactly .
 by the Magi .
 Then what be say through the prophet Jeremiah be fulfil :
 A cry be hear in Rama ,
 a cry and a great lament :
 Rachel weeps for her child
 and do not want to be console ,
 because they be no longer .
 When Herod die , behold , an angel of the Lord appear in a dream to Joseph in Egypt and say to him : `` Get up , take the child and his mother with you and go to the land of Israel ; in fact those who try to kill the child die » .
 He get up , take the child and his mother and enter the land of Israel .
 But when he learn that Archelaus be reign in Judea in place of his father Herod , he be afraid to go there .
 Then warn in a dream , he retire to the region of Galilee and go to live in a city call Nazareth , so that what have be say by the prophet would be fulfil : `` He will be call Nazarene '' .
