 Then Jesus be lead by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempt by the devil .
 After fast for forty day and forty night , he finally become hungry .
 The tempter approach him and say : `` If you be the Son of God , tell these stone to become bread '' .
 But he reply : `` It be write :
 Man will not live on bread alone ,
 but of every word that come from the mouth of God » .
 Then the devil take him to the holy city , place him on the highest point of the temple and say to him : “ If you be the Son of God , throw yourself down ; in fact it be write :
 He will give order to his angel regard you
 and they will carry you on their hand
 so that your foot do not stumble on a stone » .
 Jesus answer him : « It be also write :
 You will not put the Lord your God to the test .
 Again the devil take him to a very high mountain and show him all the kingdom of the world and their glory and say to him , `` All these thing I will give you if , throw yourself at my foot , you will worship me . ''
 Then Jesus answer him : « Go away , Satan !
 In fact , it be write :
 The Lord your God you will worship :
 to him alone you will render cult » .
 Then the devil leave him , and behold , angel approach him and serve him .
 When Jesus learn that John have be arrest , he retire to Galilee , leave Nazareth and go to live in Capernaum , on the seashore , in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali , so that what have be say by the prophet Isaiah would be fulfil :
 Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali ,
 on the way to the sea , beyond the Jordan ,
 Galilee of the Gentiles !
 The people who dwell in darkness
 saw a great light ,
 for those who live in the region and shadow of death
 a light have rise .
 From then on Jesus begin to preach and to say : `` Repent , because the kingdom of heaven be near '' .
 As he walk along the sea of ​​Galilee , he saw two brother , Simon , call Peter , and Andrew his brother , cast their net into the sea ; they be in fact fisherman .
 And he say to them , `` Follow me , and I will make you fisher of men . ''
 And they immediately leave their net and follow him .
 Going far , he saw two other brother , James , son of Zebedee , and John his brother , who be repair their net in the boat , together with Zebedee their father , and he call them .
 And they immediately leave the boat and their father and follow him .
 Jesus travel all over Galilee , teach in their synagogue , proclaim the gospel of the Kingdom and heal all sort of disease and infirmity in the people .
 His fame spread throughout Syria and lead to him all the sick , torment by various disease and pain , possess , epileptic and paralytic ; and he heal them .
 Large crowd begin to follow him from Galilee , the Decapolis , Jerusalem , Judea and from beyond the Jordan .
