 Seeing the crowd , Jesus go up on the mountain and sit down and his disciple come to him .
 He speak and teach them , say :
 `` Blessed be the poor in spirit ,
 for theirs be the kingdom of heaven .
 Blessed be those who be in tear ,
 because they will be comfort .
 Blessed be the meek ,
 because they will inherit the land .
 Blessed be those who hunger and thirst for justice ,
 because they will be satisfy .
 Blessed be the merciful ,
 for they will find mercy .
 Blessed be the pure in heart ,
 because they will see God .
 Blessed be the peacemaker ,
 for they will be call child of God .
 Blessed be those who be persecute for justice ,
 for theirs be the kingdom of heaven .
 Blessed be you when they insult you , persecute you and , lie , say all sort of evil against you for my sake .
 Rejoice and rejoice , for great be your reward in heaven .
 Thus they persecute the prophet who be before you .
 You be the salt of the earth ; but if the salt lose its flavor , with what will it be salt ?
 It serve no purpose other than to be throw away and trample on by the people .
 You be the light of the world ; a city that be on a mountain can not remain hidden , nor be a lamp lit to put it under a bushel , but on the candlestick , and so it give light to all those in the house .
 So let your light shine before men , so that they may see your good work and give glory to your Father who be in heaven .
 Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets ; I do not come to abolish , but to give full fulfillment .
 Truly I tell you : until heaven and earth have pass away , not a single iota or a single dash of the Law will pass , without everything have happen .
 So whoever break one of these least precept and teach others to do the same will be consider least in the kingdom of heaven .
 On the other hand , whoever observe and teach them will be consider great in the kingdom of heaven .
 I tell you , in fact , unless your righteousness exceed that of the scribe and Pharisees , you will not enter the kingdom of heaven .
 You understand that it be say to the ancient : You will not kill ; whoever kill must be subject to judgment .
 But I tell you : whoever get angry with his brother will have to be subject to judgment .
 Who then say to his brother : `` Stupid '' must be submit to the Sanhedrin ; and whoever say to him : “ Crazy ” will be destine for the fire of Geènna .
 So if you present your offering at the altar and there you remember that your brother have something against you , leave your gift there in front of the altar , first go and be reconcile with your brother and then return to offer yours .
 gift .
 Get along quickly with your opponent while you be walk with him , so that the opponent do not hand you over to the judge and the judge to guard , and you be throw into prison .
 In truth , I tell you : you will not get out of there until you have pay the last penny !
 You have hear that it be say : You shall not commit adultery .
 But I tell you : whoever look at a woman to desire her have already commit adultery with her in his heart .
 If your right eye cause you to scandal , tear it out and throw it away from you : it be well for you to lose one of your limb , rather than have your whole body throw into hell .
 And if your right hand cause you to scandal , cut it off and throw it away from you : it be well for you to lose one of your member , rather than your whole body go to end up in hell .
 It be also say : `` Whoever divorce his wife , give her the act of divorce '' .
 But I tell you : whoever divorce his wife , except in the case of illegitimate union , expose her to adultery , and whoever marry a divorced woman commit adultery .
 You also understand that it be say to the ancient : `` You will not swear falsehood , but you will fulfill your oath to the Lord . ''
 But I tell you : do not swear at all , neither by heaven , because it be the throne of God , nor by the earth , because it be his footstool , nor by Jerusalem , because it be the city of the great King .
 Do not swear even by your head , because you do n't have the power to make a single hair black or white .
 Instead , let your speech be : “ Yes , yes ” , “ No , no ” ; the more come from the evil one .
 You have hear that it be say : An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth .
 But I tell you not to oppose the wicked ; on the contrary , if someone give you a slap on the right cheek , you also give him the other , and whoever want to take you to court and take off your tunic , you also leave your cloak .
 And if one force you to accompany him for a mile , go with him two .
 Give to those who ask you , and to those who want a loan from you do not turn your back .
 You have hear that it be say : You will love your neighbor and hate your enemy .
 But I tell you : love your enemy and pray for those who persecute you , so that you may be child of your Father who be in heaven ; he make his sun rise on the bad and the good , and make it rain on the just and the unjust .
 In fact , if you love those who love you , what reward do you have ?
 Do not even the tax collector do the same ?
 And if you greet your brother only , what be you do extraordinary ?
 Do not even the pagan do the same ?
 Therefore , be perfect as your heavenly Father be perfect .
