 Be careful not to practice your justice before men to be admire by them , otherwise there be no reward for you with your Father who be in heaven .
 So , when you give alms , do n't blow the trumpet in front of you , as hypocrite do in synagogue and in the street , to be praise by the people .
 Truly I tell you , they have already receive their reward .
 Instead , while you be give alms , your left may not know what your right be do , so that your alms will remain in secret ; and your Father , who see in secret , will reward you .
 And when you pray , do not be like the hypocrite who , in the synagogue and in the corner of the square , love to pray stand upright , to be see by the people .
 Truly I tell you , they have already receive their reward .
 Instead , when you pray , go into your room , close the door and pray to your Father , who be in secret ; and your Father , who see in secret , will reward you .
 When praying , do not waste word like the pagan : they believe they be be listen to by dint of word .
 So do n't be like them , because your Father know what thing you need even before you ask him .
 So pray like this :
 Our Father who art in heaven ,
 hallow be your name ,
 Come your kingdom ,
 your will be do ,
 as in heaven so on earth .
 Give us today our daily bread ,
 and forgive us our debt
 as we also forgive our debtor ,
 and do not abandon us to temptation ,
 but deliver us from evil .
 For if you forgive others their sin , your Father who be in heaven will forgive you too ; but if you do not forgive others , not even your Father will forgive your sin .
 And when you fast , do not become melancholy like the hypocrite , who take on an air of defeat to show others that they be fast .
 Truly I tell you , they have already receive their reward .
 On the other hand , when you fast , make your head profuse and wash your face , so that people do not see that you be fast , but only your Father , who be in secret ; and your Father , who see in secret , will reward you .
 Do not hoard treasure for yourselves on earth , where moth and rust consume and where thief break in and steal ; but accumulate treasure for yourselves in heaven , where neither moth nor rust consume and where thief do not break in or steal .
 Because , where your treasure be , there will your heart be too .
 The lamp of the body be the eye ; therefore , if your eye be simple , your whole body will be bright ; but if your eye be bad , your whole body will be dark .
 So if the light that be in you be darkness , how great will the darkness be !
 No one can serve two master , because either he will hate one and love the other , or he will become attached to one and despise the other .
 You can not serve God and wealth .
 Therefore I tell you : do not worry about your life , about what you will eat or drink , nor about your body , about what you will wear ; Is n't life worth more than food and the body more than clothing ?
 Look at the bird of the air : they neither sow nor reap , nor gather in barn ; yet your heavenly Father feed them .
 Are you not worth more than them ?
 And which of you , no matter how much you worry , can extend your life even a little ?
 And about the dress , why be you worry ?
 Observe how the lily of the field grow : they do not toil and do not spin .
 Yet I tell you that not even Solomon , in all his glory , be dress like one of them .
 Now , if God clothe the grass of the field like this , which be here today and tomorrow be throw into the oven , will he not do much more for you , you of little faith ?
 So do n't worry about say : “ What be we go to eat ?
 What will we drink ?
 What will we wear ?
 ” .
 All these thing be seek by the pagan .
 Your heavenly Father , in fact , know that you need it .
 Instead , seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness , and all these thing will be give to you in addition .
 So do n't worry about tomorrow , because tomorrow will worry about itself .
 Each day suffice its pain .
