 Do not judge , so as not to be judge ; because with the judgment with which you judge you will be judge and with the measure with which you measure it will be measure to you .
 Why do you look at the speck that be in your brother 's eye , and do n't you notice the beam that be in your eye ?
 Or how will you say to your brother : `` Let me take the speck out of your eye '' , while in your eye there be the beam ?
 Hypocritical !
 First remove the beam from your eye and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother 's eye .
 Do not give holy thing to dog and do not throw your pearl in front of swine , so that they do not trample them with their paw and then turn to tear you to piece .
 Ask and it will be give to you , seek and you will find , knock and it will be open to you .
 Because whoever ask receives , and whoever seek find , and to whoever knock it will be open .
 Which of you will give a stone to your son who ask for bread ?
 And if he ask for a fish , will he give him a snake ?
 If you , then , who be evil , know how to give good thing to your child , how much more will your Father who be in heaven give good thing to those who ask him !
 Whatever you want men to do to you , do it to them too : this be in fact the Law and the Prophets .
 Enter through the narrow door , because the door be wide and the way that lead to perdition spacious , and many be those who enter it .
 How narrow be the door and how cramp the way that lead to life , and few be those who find it !
 Beware of false prophet , who come to you in sheep 's clothing , but inside be ravenous wolf !
 You will recognize them by their fruit .
 Do we gather grape from thorn , or fig from bramble ?
 Thus every good tree produce good fruit and every bad tree produce bad fruit ; a good tree can not bear bad fruit , nor can a bad tree bear good fruit .
 Any tree that do not bear good fruit be cut down and throw into the fire .
 You will therefore recognize them by their fruit .
 Not whoever say to me : `` Lord , Lord '' will enter the kingdom of heaven , but he who do the will of my Father who be in heaven .
 On that day many will say to me : “ Lord , Lord , do we not prophesy in your name ?
 And in your name have we not cast out demon ?
 And in your name have we not perform many wonder ?
 ” .
 But then I will declare to them : “ I never know you .
 Get away from me , you who operate iniquity !
 `` .
 Therefore whoever hear these word of mine and put them into practice will be like a wise man who build his house on rock .
 The rain fell , the river overflow , the wind blow and strike that house , but it do not fall , because it be found on rock .
 Anyone who hear these word of mine and do not do them will be like a foolish man who build his house on sand .
 The rain fell , the river overflow , the wind blow and strike that house , and it fell and its ruin be great. ``
 When Jesus have finish these discourse , the crowd be amaze at his teaching : he teach them as one who have authority , and not as their scribe .
